United States Representative Charles Rangel (D) also said in a press release that an attack on Bush is "attack on all of us (Americans)." 
Bemba seeks refuge with the South African embassy. 
The Movement for Democratic Change says its leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, has been arrested by police. He was later released but other activists remained in police custody.  
Hamas claims full control of Palestinian Authority security agencies on the Gaza Strip. 
2007 Karachi bombings: At least 138 people are killed and 600 injured as two bombs explode near a truck carrying Benazir Bhutto. 
President Pervez Musharraf declares a period of emergency rule amid rising militant violence.  
Georgian riot police use tear gas, water and sonic cannons to break up thousands of anti-government protesters calling for the resignation of President Mikhail Saakashvili in Tbilisi.   
The President announces a 15-day nationwide state of emergency. 
Former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto tells journalists in Lahore that she has ended talks with President Pervez Musharraf over power sharing. 
Public railway company SNCF says its TGV train network has been disrupted by a "concerted campaign of sabotage". 
Musharraf announces the 2007 Pakistani state of emergency will be lifted on 2007-12-16. 
Former North Carolina Senator John Edwards withdraws his candidacy. 
Battle of N'Djamena: Chadian rebels enter the capital N'Djamena and head for the presidential palace. 
Former Governor of Arkansas Mike Huckabee withdraws his candidacy. 
Myanmar state government reports that the death toll from the cyclone has reached 22,000, with 41,000 people missing. 
Sudan's government halts an attack on the country's capital Khartoum by hundreds of rebels from Darfur. 
Shootings are reported in Khartoum, Sudan, one day after the rebel attack. Islamist leader Hassan al-Turabi is released from custody after being interrogated by police.  
An aftershock measuring 6.0 on the Richter scale topples thousands of building in Sichuan Province and injures hundreds of people. 
Illinois Senator Barack Obama accepts the nomination of the Democratic Party at the INVESCO Field at Mile High in Denver, Colorado, becoming the first African American to be nominated by a major party for election as President of the United States. 
Honduran President Manuel Zelaya tells the incoming U.S. ambassador not to present his credentials in a show of solidarity with Bolivia and Venezuela. 
The United States, European Union, Japan, and Norway urge the Tigers to cease fighting and negotiate with the government. 
French authorities say two passengers on board Air France Flight 447 were linked to Islamic terrorism.  The Ministry of the Interior later stated that these two passengers turned out to be of no concern. 
Riot police clash with protesters in Tehran.   
Chinese police arrest 1,434 people over rioting in Xinjiang province.   
Chinese police arrest 1,434 people over rioting in Xinjiang province.   
Uighur rights activists criticise Muslim-majority countries for not speaking out against Chinese repression of Muslim Uighurs. 
Turkey is to ask the United Nations Security Council to discuss ways to end the violence in Xinjiang. 
Turkey's Prime Minister  Erdogan strengthens his rhetoric: "These incidents in China are as if they are genocide. We ask the Chinese government not to remain a spectator to these incidents." [permanent dead link]  
Turkey's Prime Minister  Erdogan strengthens his rhetoric: "These incidents in China are as if they are genocide. We ask the Chinese government not to remain a spectator to these incidents." [permanent dead link]  
The Pakistani charge d'affaires is summoned after Iran says it has evidence the attack had been launched from Pakistani soil. 
The United Nations says the earthquake is the worst disaster it has ever had to deal with in its history. 
Georgian luger Nodar Kumaritashvili is killed after a crash at the Whistler Sliding Centre, during a training run for the 2010 Winter Olympics.   
Desire Petroleum, a British-listed firm, begins drilling for oil at an offshore platform within the territory of the Falkland Islands, amid mounting criticism from Argentina and Venezuela. 
Premier Wen Jiabao arrives in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture and postpones his trip to southeast Asia. 
The death toll rises to 617.   
Twin bombings on a centre for the displaced in the town of Kohat, Pakistan, kill at least 42 people and injues dozens of others.    
The Civil Aviation Authority announces that airspace over Scotland and Northern Ireland will be closed from 0700 BST on Wednesday. 
Hospital officials confirm the death of Thai general, Khattiya Sawasdipol, after he was shot on Thursday as he backed protesters in Bangkok.  
An investigation into the cause of the crash begins; the flight's black box is located.  
Israel's ambassador to Denmark, Arthur Avnon, announces that the Israeli military had received rumours of a report which asserted a link between the flotilla and Al-Qaida.  
Turkey calls for sanctions against Israel.  The United States, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, acts to mitigate the language of the Security Council's draft statement which condemned Israel's action "in the strongest terms", opting instead for one that requests an "impartial" investigation of the deaths and condemns the "acts" that led to it. 
At least 12 people are killed and 25 injured during shootings carried out by a taxi driver in the Whitehaven, Egremont and Seascale areas of west Cumbria, England. He is found dead, an apparent suicide, in Boot.      
President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev interrupts his summer holiday to return and fire several top military officials after wildfires destroy a naval base outside Moscow.  
At a meeting of the national Security Council Medvedev states: "By no means you may allow anarchy [...] You must not let the situation go out of local authorities' control". 
BlackBerry devices can be used again now across the country following a four-hour outage earlier today. 
According to Saudi officials, a deal is close to prevent the ban of the devices. 
Torrential rains worsen the ongoing flood crisis across Pakistan, which has so far affected 14 million people, as rescue helicopters are forced to stay on the ground in the northwest of the country.  
Gordon Brown requests that the British public supply more money to be used to help those affected by the floods. 
The United Nations launches a major appeal for assistance dealing with the ongoing floods that have devastated Pakistan. 
The Prime Minister of Pakistan Yusuf Raza Gilani estimates that 20 million people have been affected by the floods.  
The Prime Minister of Pakistan Yusuf Raza Gilani estimates that 20 million people have been affected by the floods.  
The United Nations states there is high risk for as many as 3.5 million children who may be struck down by diseases in the water.  
The European Union pledges an additional $39 million and the Islamic Development Bank pledges $11.2 million.  
The United Nations says that flood relief aid to Pakistan is "arriving too slowly".  
After initial hesitation, Pakistan ultimately accepts $5 million in aid from India; it subsequently calls it a "very welcome initiative".   
The United Nations calls for more helicopters. 
The Pakistan Taliban threatens to kidnap foreign aid workers. 
A drill reaches the underground chamber where the 33 trapped miners reside. Wild celebrations occur. Rescue efforts are scheduled to begin within days.  
20 people are reported arrested in China over imprisoned human rights activist Liu Xiaobo's 2010 Nobel Peace Prize award. Liu's wife's whereabouts remain unknown after she was taken away by police with human rights group Freedom Now claiming she is in de facto house arrest.  
Qantas Flight 32 from Singapore to Sydney makes an emergency landing at Changi Airport after debris suspected to be from the aircraft is found on Batam Island in Indonesia. [permanent dead link], , 
Protesters gather outside Government Buildings in Dublin. 
The United States Department of State says the planned release of a new batch of classified documents would place its military operations at risk, and warns of possible legal action if they were found to have been provided in violation of U.S. law.   
U.S. Congressman Ron Paul of Texas calls for WikiLeaks to receive similar protections to mainstream media, saying when "truth becomes treason, then we're in big trouble". 
Lawyers representing WikiLeaks spokesperson Julian Assange speak of being surveilled by members of the security services outside their own homes and say the United States Department of State is behaving "inappropriately" in its failure to respect attorney-client protocol. 
Lawyers representing WikiLeaks spokesperson Julian Assange speak of being surveilled by members of the security services outside their own homes and say the United States Department of State is behaving "inappropriately" in its failure to respect attorney-client protocol. 
Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, is arrested in London for alleged sexual misconduct in Sweden.  
Colombia, Ukraine and the Philippines, who initially declined invitations to attend the ceremony, reverse their decision.  
Colombia, Ukraine and the Philippines, who initially declined invitations to attend the ceremony, reverse their decision.  
New cables show that the British government was involved in the training of the Bangladeshi Rapid Action Battalion, a paramilitary force widely criticised for human rights violations, including torture and over 1,000 extra-judicial killings since its 2004 inception.   
Cuban revolutionary leader Fidel Castro, known for frequently disagreeing with the United States, condemns the shooting as "atrocious", "absurd" and "unjustifiable". 
The Brisbane River breaks its banks in the state capital Brisbane, prompting flood warnings for its central business district as well as several suburbs. , 
President Dilma Rousseff announces a R$ 780 million ($466.2 million) emergency relief budget for the areas affected. 
The death toll reaches at least 15 and is expected to rise as search and rescue efforts continue. , [permanent dead link], 
Car: Nasser Al-Attiyah of Qatar, with co-driver Timo Gottschalk of Germany, won in their Volkswagen. This is the first Dakar win by an Arab and third in a row for VW. 
Jordanians echo events in Tunisia by staging their own protests against soaring food prices. 
At least 42 people are killed during one fire in the city of Monastir in the central east of the country, the current deadliest single incident of the month-long protests.    
Rolling Stone says it has "no regrets about the story" and claims to be "just exposing people who were doing wrong". 
The funeral is held in a village near Kampala for David Kato, a gay rights activist in Uganda. He was recently murdered after successfully suing Rolling Stone for naming him as gay on its front cover, and had been receiving death threats. A pastor causes controversy by preaching for homosexuals to repent but is swiftly taken away.   
Two mummies housed at the Egyptian Museum are destroyed and statues are broken into pieces, though ordinary citizens unite to prevent further destruction. The vandals are reported to have been convicts who escaped amid the protests.    
The Australian state of Queensland evacuates off-shore islands and low-lying parts of North Queensland ahead of Cyclone Yasi which is expected to hit the state as a Category 4 tropical cyclone late on Wednesday or early Thursday.  
Liberal Democrat peer Lord Oakeshott resigns as a Treasury spokesman in the House of Lords after making an outspoken attack on the agreement. 
Opposition leaders in Iran call for nationwide anti-government rallies on Monday, in attempts to mimic the recent Tunisian and Egyptian revolutions. 
More than 200 people are killed and 900 other are injured as military troops attack protestors in Libya.  
More than 200 people are killed and 900 other are injured as military troops attack protestors in Libya.  
Thousands of Moroccans demonstrate in Rabat demanding that King Mohammed VI give up some of his powers.  
At least twenty-nine are killed in a "Day of Rage" protesting against economic problems and corruption in the country.  
Tunisian Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi announces his resignation in a speech on state TV. 
King Mohammed VI of Morocco pledges democratic reforms to the country's constitution, after demonstrations last month. 
Fifty thousand Japan Self-Defense Forces personnel are involved in search and rescue efforts. 
An explosion is heard at the site of the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant with four workers injured and residents warned of radiation leaks. , , , 
Onagawa Nuclear Power Plant: A state of emergency is declared by the Tohoku Electric Power Company. The alert was declared as radioactivity readings exceeding allowed levels in the area surrounding the plant although this later returns to normal.  
Two thousand bodies are found on the shores of two beaches in Miyagi Prefecture. 
A senior adviser to the Prime Minister of Japan Naoto Kan says that a fire has broken out in a fourth reactor at the Fukushima I power plant but it is later extinguished, with the radiation reading at 0831 local time (2331 GMT) climbing to 8,217 microsieverts an hour.  
Hundreds of people stage a rare protest in the Syrian capital Damascus calling for greater freedoms and the release of political prisoners.  
The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani condemns the U.S. drone attack on civilians in Pakistan, criticising events which saw elders "carelessly and callously targeted with complete disregard to human life [...] in complete violation of human rights".    
The United Nations says the shelling of a market by security forces that killed 25 people may constitute a crime against humanity. 
Authorities in Oman arrest some protesters and clear blockades in the city of Sohar. 
Flooding along the Mississippi and tributaries has worsened, exceeding record levels since a three day tornado outbreak over a week ago, with ten dead, more than a thousand homes ordered evacuated in Memphis, Tennessee, more than 2,000 in Mississippi state, and about 13% of US refinery output disrupted. , 
Flooding along the Mississippi and tributaries has worsened, exceeding record levels since a three day tornado outbreak over a week ago, with ten dead, more than a thousand homes ordered evacuated in Memphis, Tennessee, more than 2,000 in Mississippi state, and about 13% of US refinery output disrupted. , 
Mississippi River flooding worsens, with the Army Corps of Engineers saying an area between Simmesport, Louisiana and Baton Rouge will be submerged 20-30 feet, and 13% of US oil refinery output disrupted. 
IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn is remanded in custody at New York City's notorious Rikers Island jail after being dragged from a plane, charged with trying to rape a hotel maid and denied bail. 
According to American Christian radio broadcaster Harold Camping, May 21 is the date of the Rapture for all Christians around the world, happening at 6:00pm in their respective time zones.  
Hundreds of Hmong people are reportedly forced into hiding in north-west Vietnam, after security forces disperse thousands awaiting the supposed Second Coming of Christ. 
According to American Christian radio broadcaster Harold Camping, May 21 is the date of the Rapture for all Christians around the world, happening at 6:00pm in their respective time zones.  
The G8 leaders agree to give US$20 billion in support of Tunisian and Egyptian reforms after the Arab Spring. 
Israel denies pressuring Greece to stop the ships participating in the flotilla from departing; Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu's inner cabinet instructs the Israel Defense Forces to stop it.   
Les Hinton, who ran News International from 1997 to 2005 during which the hacking took place, resigns as CEO of News Corp's Dow Jones entity.   
Rebekah Brooks resigns as chief executive of News International as a result of the News International phone hacking scandal.    
Several British newspapers run full page adverts with a signed apology from Rupert Murdoch for the News of the World's "serious wrongdoing" 
Former News International Chief Executive Rebekah Brooks is arrested by police investigating phone hacking and corruption at the organisation.   
An explosion damages government buildings in Oslo, Norway at 15:25; at eight people are killed and several are reportedly injured.  
Anders Behring Breivik, the man arrested in connection with terrorism in Norway, reveals himself as to have anti-Muslim and right-wing extremist views, stating that the attacks were "atrocious, but necessary."    
Anders Behring Breivik, the man arrested in connection with terrorism in Norway, reveals himself as to have anti-Muslim and right-wing extremist views, stating that the attacks were "atrocious, but necessary."    
Jonathan May-Bowles is jailed for six weeks for throwing a foam pie into the face of Rupert Murdoch at a House of Commons Select Committee hearing. 
Charity campaigner Heather Mills tells the BBC's Newsnight that a senior Mirror Group journalist admitted hacking voicemails left for her by Sir Paul McCartney while they were together. 
Rioting hits other English cities including Manchester, Salford, Liverpool, Nottingham and Birmingham, though London is largely quiet. 
Heavy rains and rockslides close the Schuylkill Expressway, a major artery into Philadelphia. 
Pennsylvania closes and evacuates the Pennsylvania Governor's Residence and the state government is suspended. 
India threatens retaliatory action against the United States and the Congress utters its condemnation.   
India threatens retaliatory action against the United States and the Congress utters its condemnation.   
Ruchir Joshi, Jeet Thayil, Hari Kunzru and Amitava Kumar flee Jaipur on the advice of officials at the Jaipur Literature Festival after reading excerpts from Salman Rushdie's The Satanic Verses, which is banned in India. Rushdie, himself banned from the event, is told that police are searching for the four fugitive writers. 
A proposed video link session with Rushdie tomorrow is outlawed by the government. 
Heavy snow falls across much of the United Kingdom, leading to the cancellation of hundreds of flights at Heathrow Airport and the closure of the runway at Luton Airport. 
Police in the San Gabriel Valley in southern California cite United States Secretary of Commerce John Bryson for felony hit and run for alleged involvement in a series of accidents on the weekend.  
Britain's Jonathan Marray and Denmark's Frederik Nielsen win Wimbledon's men's doubles final by three sets to two. Marray becomes the first Briton to win such a match since 1936. 
At least 6 Israeli tourists, men and women, are killed and more than 25 others are injured after a bomb explodes on an Israeli tourism bus  at Burgas Airport, Bulgaria. 
A gunman opens fire at a movie premiere of The Dark Knight Rises in Aurora, Colorado, killing at least 12 people and injuring 59 others.  
James Holmes, the suspect of a mass shooting that killed 12 and injured 58 in Aurora, Colorado, makes his first court appearance. 
The United Nations General Assembly adopts a non-binding resolution condemning the Syrian government for its use of force against civilians, noting "human rights abuses" by opposition forces, and reproaching the United Nations Security Council for its "failure" to counter the crisis. 
A gunman opens fire at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, killing six people; the perpetrator later dies of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.  
Syrian Prime Minister Riad Hijab and his family defect to Jordan to join the opposition. State-run media claims he was fired, but the Free Syrian Army states this was only after he arrived in Jordan. 
The summit is closed with accepting a 600-page final document that mainly focuses on the Palestinian issue as well as on Iran's nuclear energy program, but makes no mention of the Syrian civil war. A Chinese state commentary qualifies the summit as an "important" diplomatic "accomplishment from Iran", having hosted "leaders and delegates of over 100 countries".   
The summit is closed with accepting a 600-page final document that mainly focuses on the Palestinian issue as well as on Iran's nuclear energy program, but makes no mention of the Syrian civil war. A Chinese state commentary qualifies the summit as an "important" diplomatic "accomplishment from Iran", having hosted "leaders and delegates of over 100 countries".   
Canada closes its embassy in Iran and orders all Iranian diplomatic staff out of Canada, citing Iran's support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Iran's "among the worst" human rights record, its lack of respect for the Vienna conventions, its nuclear program and the security of Canadian diplomatic personnel. It sees Iran as the world's "most significant threat to global peace and security." Minister of foreign affairs Baird says the Canadian government files Iran as a "state sponsor of terrorism" under the Canadian .  
One of Assad's relatives, who was a Syrian Air Force officer, defects from the Syrian government. 
Syrian opposition forces facilitate infiltration from Turkey by seizing control of a border crossing in the province of Ar-Raqqah. 
A series of bombings at the Saadallah Al-Jabiri Square in the northwestern city of Aleppo kill at least 34 people.  The al Qaeda linked Jabhat al-Nusra claims responsibility.  
Scotland Yard launches a "formal criminal investigation" into Savile after 200 potential sexual abuse victims come forward. 
A car bomb explodes in the capital Damascus, killing an unknown number of people and injuring many. 
The Israel Defense Forces has fired an anti-tank missile in the direction of a mortar position in Syria after a 120mm mortar shell exploded near an Israeli post in the Golan Heights. Although the missile was reportedly intended as a "warning shot" and directed to miss the mortar position on purpose, the IDF's response marks the first time since the 1973 Yom Kippur War that Israel has fired at Syrian territory.  
Rebel forces seize parts of the Sheikh Suleiman army base near Aleppo after weeks of heavy fighting. Ground clashes continue in the suburbs of Damascus as the government carries out further air raids against opposition forces. 
Twin bombings at a billiard hall in the southwestern Pakistani city of Quetta kill at least 81 people and wound up to 120 others, hours after a bombing at a market area killed 11 people in the same city.   
Rebel forces take over the strategic Taftanaz airbase in northern Syria. 
Heavy snowfall causes extensive disruption in the United Kingdom. 
The Military of Mali recaptures the town of Konna three days after French jets drove out Islamist militants.   
The Military of Mali recaptures the town of Konna three days after French jets drove out Islamist militants.   
Four climbers are killed by an avalanche in Glen Coe in the Scottish Highlands while descending the south side of Bidean nam Bian. A fifth member of the party is airlifted to hospital with serious injuries, while a sixth escapes unharmed. 
A Japan Coast Guard ship engages a Taiwanese ship carrying activists bound for the Senkaku Islands.   
A prison riot in Barquisimeto, Venezuela, kills at least 50 people and injures about 90 people.   
A prison riot in Barquisimeto, Venezuela, kills at least 50 people and injures about 90 people.   
Massive protests against Mohamed Morsi develop all over Egypt on the second anniversary of the 2011 revolution, including in Tahrir Square, where thousands of protesters gathered. At least 6 civilians and 1 police officer are shot dead in the Egyptian city of Suez, while 456 others are injured nationwide.    
At least 30 people die in violence that erupted in Port Said, Egypt, following the death sentences of 21 people for their roles in the Port Said Stadium disaster.   
Seven more people are killed and 630 injured during the funerals for 33 people killed the day before in Port Said.   
A tsunami warning is issued for a wide range of islands in the South Pacific after a magnitude 8.0 earthquake occurs off the coast of the Solomon Islands.   
At least 84 people are killed and more than 190 injured after a bomb explodes at a market in Hazara Town on the outskirts of Quetta, in Pakistan. Most of the victims are members of the predominantly Twelver Shia Hazara minority that was targeted by Lashkar-e-Jhangvi only a month earlier. The organization later claims responsibility for the blasts.    
At least 84 people are killed and more than 190 injured after a bomb explodes at a market in Hazara Town on the outskirts of Quetta, in Pakistan. Most of the victims are members of the predominantly Twelver Shia Hazara minority that was targeted by Lashkar-e-Jhangvi only a month earlier. The organization later claims responsibility for the blasts.    
At least 61 people are killed and more than 200 injured following a car bombing near Syria's Baath Party headquarters in Damascus. Three other bombings kill 22 people and injure 50 others in the suburb of Barzeh, most of them government soldiers. These are the deadliest attacks in the Syrian capital since the outbreak of the civil war.    
At least 61 people are killed and more than 200 injured following a car bombing near Syria's Baath Party headquarters in Damascus. Three other bombings kill 22 people and injure 50 others in the suburb of Barzeh, most of them government soldiers. These are the deadliest attacks in the Syrian capital since the outbreak of the civil war.    
At least 20 people are dead and 54 injured following several bombings in the Indian city of Hyderabad.  
A bomb blast in Karachi, Pakistan, kills at least 45 people in a predominately Shia Muslim area.  
The Malaysian Army launches an attack on an armed Filipino group on the island of Borneo in an effort to end the standoff. 
Battle of Ar-Raqqah: Syrian rebels capture Ar-Raqqah, the first major city to be under rebel control in the Syrian civil war. 
British Foreign Secretary William Hague announces the UK will send armoured vehicles and body armour to opposition forces in Syria to help save lives. 
The insurgent group Islamic State of Iraq claims responsibility for ambushing a convoy of Syrian Army soldiers on March 4.  
President of the United States Barack Obama announces that Israel and Turkey have reached an agreement to normalize relations between both countries.   
North Korea warns that it cannot protect their embassies in Pyongyang as of April 10. It is advised that all foreign countries consider asking the staff of their embassies to leave.  
Margaret Thatcher, former British Prime Minister, dies of a stroke at the age of 87 in London.  
Downing Street announces the funeral for Margaret Thatcher is scheduled for Wednesday, 17 April. She will be afforded a ceremonial exit, ranking her alongside Diana Spencer and the Queen Mother. 
North Korea announces its plans to launch a missile tomorrow; an event on that day had been warned about before. 
South Korea announces that North Korea was behind the wave of cyber attacks against several companies last month. 
South Korea and the United States raise their military watch alert to "vital threat" (level 2) ahead of an expected North Korean missile launch. 
North Korea shuts down tourism from China as nuclear tensions mount, but business travel is allowed to continue. 
According to a released incorrectly declassified U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency report, North Korea may have the technology to miniaturize, mount, and deliver a nuclear warhead with a long-range missile. The accuracy of the system should, however, be low. 
United States Secretary of State John Kerry lands in Seoul, South Korea, as he embarks on three-day trip through South Korea, Japan, and China to send a "tough" message to North Korea. 
South Korea's defense ministry says it doubts North Korea has the ability to launch a nuclear-armed ballistic missile as claimed in a report by the United States Defense Intelligence Agency. 
The Philippines offers the use of its military bases to the United States. 
South Korean police stop a planned launch of anti-North Korean leaflets across the border, as the government of South Korea seeks to open dialogue with the North and defuse soaring tensions in the Korean Peninsula. 
The United States and People's Republic of China agree to work towards ridding the Korean Peninsula of nuclear weapons. 
The Times reports that evidence smuggled out of Syria indicates the use of chemical weapons in the ongoing conflict.   
North Korea rebuffs an offer of dialogue by South Korea.  
At least 33 people are killed and more than 160 others are wounded during a wave of bombings in Kirkuk, Baqubah, Tikrit, Fallujah, Nassiriyah, Mussayab and Baghdad.   
At least 33 people are killed and more than 160 others are wounded during a wave of bombings in Kirkuk, Baqubah, Tikrit, Fallujah, Nassiriyah, Mussayab and Baghdad.   
North Korea suggests that it is open to peaceful negotiations, on the condition that its status as a nuclear power is not challenged. 
Hundreds of protesters arrive at Ludgate Circus near the end of the procession route, protesting variously by turning their backs to the coffin, chanting slogans or standing in silence. 
15 people are confirmed dead after the Texas fertilizer plant explosion in West, Texas, United States.   
The Federal Bureau of Investigation posts photos of two suspects in the Boston Marathon bombing.   
A man goes on a shooting rampage outside a firearm shop in Belgorod, Russia, killing six. 
An Israeli military intelligence analyst states that Syria has used chemical weapons repeatedly over the past month. He also criticizes the international community for not responding to the use of the weapons. 
Up to 100 people are killed in a raid of al-Bayda, Baniyas by the Syrian Army. 
Israeli aircraft hit at least six targets near Damascus, targeting Iranian-made Fateh-110 missile shipments en route to Hezbollah.  
Friends of Syria calls on Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah to withdraw from Syrian territory. 
Le Monde reports continued use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime in Syria. 
The Czech Republic experiences its worst flooding of the decade with huge volumes of water surging towards Prague.  
The Guardian obtains a copy of a document from April that reveals that the NSA is mining data using PRISM, spying on the e-mails and web activities of American citizens through direct access to Google, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, YouTube, Skype, Yahoo, Paltalk and AOL. The Guardian's report does not state from whom they obtained the document.   
The Guardian obtains a copy of a document from April that reveals that the NSA is mining data using PRISM, spying on the e-mails and web activities of American citizens through direct access to Google, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, YouTube, Skype, Yahoo, Paltalk and AOL. The Guardian's report does not state from whom they obtained the document.   
Clashes between the Lebanese Army and supporters of the Salafist cleric Ahmed Al-Assir continue for a second day around the Ain el-Hilweh camp near Sidon. The government reports at least 15 soldiers killed and 38 others injured in the violence, as it promises crackdown on ethnic strife across the country. 
Demonstrations across Egypt gather about 15 million people nationwide calling for the resignation of Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi. 
Police say that a forensic report confirmed the cooking oil contained "very toxic" levels of monocrotophos, an agricultural pesticide. ,
Police say that a forensic report confirmed the cooking oil contained "very toxic" levels of monocrotophos, an agricultural pesticide. ,
A chemical attack on Adra and Houma in the Damascus Suburbs is reported. 
An Egyptian army helicopter kills 15 militants in the Sinai Peninsula. 
The announcement, while confirmed by external research, is still met in some quarters by skepticism. 
The M23 rebel movement is defeated by Congolese troops, bringing an end to the armed conflict. 
M23 rebel chief Sultani Makenga, along with hundreds of rebels, surrenders to authorities in Mgahinga Gorilla National Park, Uganda. 
Flooding in Vietnam has killed at least 28 people with nine more missing and nearly 80,000 displaced. 
The death toll in the Philippines tops 5000. 
Iran signs an interim agreement with the P5+1 countries limiting its nuclear program in exchange for reduced sanctions.   
A 5.6 earthquake in Iran kills seven people and injures 30.  
Eight people are confirmed dead following Friday's crash, with a further 14 seriously injured. 
Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond describes the incident as "a black day for Glasgow and for Scotland".  
Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond describes the incident as "a black day for Glasgow and for Scotland".  
Six people are killed in Lebanon's northern city of Tripoli on Saturday in exchanges of fire between neighborhoods which support rival sides in Syria's civil war. 
American pop band One Republic donates $1 million to aid the victims. 
During the third Sunday of mass protests, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians in Kiev seek the resignation of the government for refusing a deal on closer ties with the European Union. 
The Supreme Court of India upholds the primacy of Section 377 of the Indian penal code banning homosexual activities. 
Two Egyptian soldiers are killed and eight wounded in an operation targeting Sinai militants in the northern Sinai Peninsula. 
An Islamist group claims responsibility for the bombings and threatens attacks on the 2014 Winter Olympic Games to be held in Sochi. 
Stanislas Wawrinka defeats Rafael Nadal 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 to win the men's final. 
Parliament repeals anti-protest laws which had led to protests. , 
The International Olympic Committee lifts the suspension of the Indian Olympic Association effective immediately. Indian athletes are now able to compete at the 2014 Winter Olympics under their nation's flag. 
A group of knife-wielding terrorist suspects attacks people at the Kunming Railway Station in the city of Kunming in Yunnan province, south-western China. At least 29 people are killed and 130 others injured. 
A group of knife-wielding terrorist suspects attacks people at the Kunming Railway Station in the city of Kunming in Yunnan province, south-western China. At least 29 people are killed and 130 others injured. 
Malaysia Airlines loses contact with a Boeing 777-200ER passenger plane carrying 239 people from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, China. 
Japan announces it will fall in line with American sanctions against Russia for its role in promoting the secession of Crimea from Ukraine. 
Russia and Ukraine together with the United States and the European Union sit down for emergency talks in Geneva. All four agree that "illegal military formations in Ukraine" must be dissolved, and that everyone occupying buildings must be disarmed and leave them. There would be an amnesty for all anti-government protesters under the agreement.  
Pro-Russian militants in the eastern Ukrainian city of Luhansk seize the regional administration's headquarters, resulting in a tense standoff with the militants and security personnel. 
At least 30 people have been killed in clashes between Al-Qaeda and the Yemen Army. 
Helen, the eldest daughter of Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) murder victim Jean McConville, is prepared to name the people responsible for her mother's death, saying she no longer fears reprisals by republicans. 
The Armed Forces of Ukraine launch a military operation against separatists in the city of Sloviansk with claims of many deaths and two Ukrainian Army helicopters downed. In the port city of Odessa, violent clashes kill at least 42 people, as pro-Ukrainians set the pro-Russian headquarters on fire. , , 
Russian President Vladimir Putin says that Ukraine's presidential election on May 25 is a step "in the right direction", calling on anti-Kiev protesters to postpone a May 11 federalization referendum.  Putin also added qualifying conditions.
Pro-Russian militants recapture the city hall of the southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol hours after the Ukrainian government forces took control of the building from the militants.  
Pro-Russian rebels push forward with plans for a referendum on May 11th ignoring Putin's statement to delay the vote. 
Seven police commandos are killed in a Naxalite attack in the Indian state of Maharashtra. 
At least 238 miners are killed and 120 others trapped in a coal mine in the town of Soma in Turkey's Manisa Province. , 
The official death toll for the disaster rises to 282, with up to 150 miners still missing.  
Heavy fighting between the Ukrainian military and pro-Russian militants takes place in and around the rebel-held eastern city of Sloviansk.  
United States special operations forces, in coordination with the FBI, captured Ahmed Abu Khattala, one of the suspected leaders of the Benghazi attack, on the weekend of June 14 to June 15, 2014, in a covert mission in Libya. 
40 Indians working for a Turkish construction company are abducted by militants in Mosul. 
Miroslav Klose of Germany breaks the World Cup goal scoring record he previously shared with Ronaldo in a semi-final against Brazil. 
Germany won 7-1 against Brazil to go through to the final in the biggest margin of victory in the FIFA World Cup's semifinal history.  
One soldier and seven civilians, including two children, are killed in two successive mortar blasts in Egypt's city of Al-Arish in the Sinai Peninsula. 
At least eight Azeri soldiers are killed following clashes with Armenian troops on the border and near the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region. Azerbaijan said Armenia had also suffered losses, although it did not provide any details. 
Five more Azeri troops are killed in overnight fighting with ethnic Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh. The casualties bring the death toll to at least 13 in a flare-up of violence over the last few days around Nagorno-Karabakh. Russia has said that any further escalation is unacceptable. 
Products from at least 900 food makers are being recalled after authorities say a factory illegally used 243 tonnes of recycled waste oil disguised as lard, some of which may have been exported overseas.  
Taiwan's Food and Drug Administration indefinitely halts imports of edible lard oil from Hong Kong, since an exporter was found to have falsely listed and sold industrial grade lard as safe for human consumption. 
Yeh Wen-hsiang, the chairman of  Chang Guann Co, is arrested for fraud for his role in the scandal. 
Voters in Scotland go to the polls to vote on the referendum on independence. , , 
Manila is inundated by massive flooding causing flights to the international airport to be cancelled and businesses to shut down. 
Alex Salmond announces his resignation as First Minister of Scotland and leader of the Scottish National Party following the referendum. 
The investigation continues as the Russian Oil-tanker NS Concord maintains its criss-crossing outside Stockholm. 
A student and a student gunman of Marysville Pilchuck High School in Marysville, Washington, are fatally shot along with six others injured. 
Two attacks by militants on Egyptian military positions in the Sinai Peninsula kill at least 33 security personnel. 
In the National League, Clayton Kershaw of the Los Angeles Dodgers, who had previously won the league's Cy Young Award as its most outstanding pitcher, becomes the first NL player to sweep both awards since Bob Gibson in 1968. 
A grand jury in St. Louis County, Missouri decides not to indict police officer Darren Wilson in relation to the shooting of Michael Brown in the suburb of Ferguson. , 
At least 133 people were killed and 100 wounded, in the aftermath of clashes between Awlad Omran and Al-Ziyoud groups of the Mesiria tribe. The clashes occurred in the Kwak area of the West Kurdufan state, Sudan. 
Chinese police apprehend and execute eleven Uyghur terrorists following an attack with 15 killed and 14 injured in Yarkant County, China. 
Researchers claim that the pandemic has reached a tipping point where the number of people receiving treatment in a year was greater than the number of new cases. , 
An American civilian and a South African civilian die during an attempt to rescue them by U.S. Navy SEALs in Yemen. They were being held hostage by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. 
Ugandan rebels from the Allied Democratic Forces and National Army for the Liberation of Uganda kill 36 people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo's North Kivu province. 
The death toll from Typhoon Hagupit in the Philippines is at least three as the storm weakens. 
Authorities remove the last remaining protest camp, the one at Causeway Bay, Hong Kong. 
Authorities remove the last remaining protest camp, the one at Causeway Bay, Hong Kong. 
A Hong Kong jury acquits Sun Hung Kai Properties Hong Kong tycoon Raymond Kwok of all charges, while convicting his brother Thomas of conspiracy to commit office misconduct.  
A Hong Kong jury acquits Sun Hung Kai Properties Hong Kong tycoon Raymond Kwok of all charges, while convicting his brother Thomas of conspiracy to commit office misconduct.  
Traveling through thunderstorms over the Java Sea, Flight 8501 loses contact with air traffic control after the plane departed from the Indonesian city of Surabaya en route to Singapore with 162 people on board. 
Fleeing villagers from a remote part of the Borno State report that Boko Haram had three days prior kidnapped around 40 boys and young men. 
News emerges that two days prior hundreds of Boko Haram militants had overrun several towns in northeast Nigeria and captured the military base in Baga. 
In handball, France beats Qatar in the final to win a record fifth world championship. 
A TransAsia Airways ATR 72 turboprop aircraft with 58 people on board en route from the Taiwanese capital Taipei to Kinmen, Taiwan crashes into the Keelung River near Taipei just after liftoff killing at least 31 people with several injures and missing. , , 
Boyhood wins Best Film with Richard Linklater winning the Best Director award. 
A court in the city of Grosseto convicts the former captain of the Costa Concordia, Francesco Schettino, of manslaughter for his part in the ship's January 2012 sinking, and sentences him to 16 years in jail. 
Enele Sopoaga, the Prime Minister of Tuvalu, estimates that 45% of the population has been displaced by the cyclone. 
The government of the island nation of Vanuatu declares a state of emergency for Shefa Province containing the capital Port Vila as authorities struggle to assess the full impact of the category 5 storm. Once assessments of the damage have been done in other provinces, authorities are likely to widen the declared area in a state of emergency.  , 
Gunmen attack Tunisia's Bardo National Museum, adjacent to the parliament building, killing 23 people, including 18 foreign tourists. 
French prosecutors claim that evidence supports the conclusion that the co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz, deliberately crashed the plane. 
In imitation of current U.S. policy, Lufthansa, together with other German airlines announce plans to mandate that two people (either two pilots or a pilot and a flight attendant) must be inside the cockpit at all times. 
German prosecutors state that the co-pilot researched suicide methods and the security of cockpit doors. 
About 15 Egyptian soldiers and 2 civilians are killed by a combination of guns and car bombs.  
About 15 Egyptian soldiers and 2 civilians are killed by a combination of guns and car bombs.  
Data from the flight data recorder reveals that the plane was deliberately accelerated before crashing into the French Alps. 
An Arizona judge sentences convicted murderer Jodi Arias to life without parole for the 2008 murder of her ex-boyfriend. 
Three people have died in floods in the Australian town of Dungog, New South Wales as heavy rains and cyclonic winds hits the state of New South Wales causing widespread flooding, loss of power to over 100,000 homes and disruption of transport services. 
Violent rioting and protests including looting occur near the Mondawmin Mall in Baltimore after the funeral of Freddie Gray with fifteen Baltimorean police officers being injured. , 
Marilyn Mosby, the State Attorney for Baltimore, Maryland, rules that the death of Freddie Gray was a homicide and six officers of the Baltimore Police Department had been negligent in his death. 
At least two people are killed in the American town of Nashville, Arkansas. 
A magnitude 7.3 earthquake strikes the town of Namche Bazaar, Nepal, near the Tibetan border and the base camp for Mount Everest. , , , 
A United States Marine Corps Bell UH-1Y Venom helicopter on a relief mission goes missing over Bhimeshwar (formerly Charikot), Nepal, with eight people on board. , 
In the ongoing protests in Skopje, Republic of Macedonia, tens of thousands of people rally in support of Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski. .
The Singaporean government declares June 8 be a national remembrance day with the Singaporean flag being flown at half-mast and a minute of silence being observed at the beginning of all 2015 SEA Games venues. This is as a mark of respect for the eight people who were killed in the earthquake, which consists of six Primary 6 students, one teacher and their adventure guide.  
Nine people are dead following a mass shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. , , 
Nine people are dead following a mass shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina. , , 
In golf, American Jordan Spieth wins his second major championship of the year winning the U.S. Open by a stroke and becomes the first golfer since Gene Sarazen to win two majors before the age of 22. 
The CNN reports that the size of the Office of Personnel Management data breach could be as large as 18 million past, present and prospective employees of the United States Government. 
A man is decapitated and at least two others are injured during an attack in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier as a man carrying an Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant flag attacks a factory near the French city of Lyon. 
At least 27 people are killed and 227 injured after a suicide bombing at the Shia  Imam Sadiq mosque in Kuwait City, Kuwait. ISIL claims responsibility for the attack. , 
Militants launch attacks on Egyptian Armed Forces checkpoints in North Sinai, leaving dozens of security personnel and insurgents killed. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claims responsibility for the assaults. 
A shooting occurs at a United States Navy recruiting office and a Navy operational support center in Chattanooga, Tennessee, killing four U.S. Marines and the gunman and  wounding a police officer, a Marine Corps recruiter and a sailor who is listed in serious condition.  , ,  
A shooting occurs at a United States Navy recruiting office and a Navy operational support center in Chattanooga, Tennessee, killing four U.S. Marines and the gunman and  wounding a police officer, a Marine Corps recruiter and a sailor who is listed in serious condition.  , ,  
In golf, the final round of The Open Championship is played at the Old Course at St Andrews in Scotland with Zach Johnson winning a four hole playoff with Marc Leishman and Louis Oosthuizen. , 
Seven people are wounded, and three are dead (including the shooter) after a 58-year-old gunman opens fire at the Grand 16 Movie Theater in Lafayette, Louisiana during a showing of Trainwreck. , 
YPG led forces capture the strategic town Sarrin from ISIL after a month-long offensive. 
A suicide bomb attack kills at least 15 people at a mosque in the south-western Saudi city of Abha. IS claims responsibility. , 
Tyrone Harris, Jr is shot in Ferguson, Missouri after allegedly firing shots at police. He is in a critical condition.
In a two year period, 280 to 300 children have been sexually abused and filmed doing forced sex acts in Pakistan by a gang consisting of 20 to 25 culprits. , , 
A massive explosion in the Chinese city of Tianjin results in at least 17 deaths, 11 people seriously injured, and hundreds of people being hospitalised. , , 
Thai police say that they suspect that at least 10 people were involved in planning the attack on the Erawan Shrine, but that international terrorists were unlikely to have been involved. 
European interior ministers and transport officials hold emergency talks in Paris following the recent attack on the Thalys train between Amsterdam and Paris. 
Strong winds cause a construction crane collapse at the Masjid al-Haram mosque killing 107 people and injuring 283 others. Most of the people killed were on the annual Islamic hajj (pilgrimage) to Mecca. , , , 
Chinese and Indian troops face-off in the Burtse region of northern Ladakh after Indian troops crossed the mutually-agreed patrolling line to dismantle a disputed watchtower the Chinese were building close to line. 
The Indonesian province of Riau declares a state of emergency due to high levels of smoke haze from forest fires in Riau, Jambi and South Sumatra that have led thousands of people to flee the capital Pekanbaru. 
Governor of Arizona Doug Ducey states that 21-year-old Leslie Allen Merritt Jr. is ballistically linked to four incidents and arrested in Glendale, Arizona after a SWAT raid. Merritt was previously charged twice in 2013, the first for failing to stop at the scene of a damaged vehicle, and the second for assault and criminal damage. Police state that he is known to hold anti-government and anti-police views. He is charged with four counts each of aggravated assault, criminal damage, disorderly conduct, discharging a firearm within city limits, carrying out a drive-by shooting, and intentional acts of terrorism; and his bail is set at $1 million. , , , , , , , , 
Two security personnel, 17 worshippers in a mosque, and 13 militants are killed following a Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan attack on a Pakistan Air Force base on the outskirts of Peshawar. , 
Governor of Arizona Doug Ducey states that 21-year-old Leslie Allen Merritt Jr. is ballistically linked to four incidents and arrested in Glendale, Arizona after a SWAT raid. Merritt was previously charged twice in 2013, the first for failing to stop at the scene of a damaged vehicle, and the second for assault and criminal damage. Police state that he is known to hold anti-government and anti-police views. He is charged with four counts each of aggravated assault, criminal damage, disorderly conduct, discharging a firearm within city limits, carrying out a drive-by shooting, and intentional acts of terrorism; and his bail is set at $1 million. , , , , , , , , 
Governor of Arizona Doug Ducey states that 21-year-old Leslie Allen Merritt Jr. is ballistically linked to four incidents and arrested in Glendale, Arizona after a SWAT raid. Merritt was previously charged twice in 2013, the first for failing to stop at the scene of a damaged vehicle, and the second for assault and criminal damage. Police state that he is known to hold anti-government and anti-police views. He is charged with four counts each of aggravated assault, criminal damage, disorderly conduct, discharging a firearm within city limits, carrying out a drive-by shooting, and intentional acts of terrorism; and his bail is set at $1 million. , , , , , , , , 
Governor of Arizona Doug Ducey states that 21-year-old Leslie Allen Merritt Jr. is ballistically linked to four incidents and arrested in Glendale, Arizona after a SWAT raid. Merritt was previously charged twice in 2013, the first for failing to stop at the scene of a damaged vehicle, and the second for assault and criminal damage. Police state that he is known to hold anti-government and anti-police views. He is charged with four counts each of aggravated assault, criminal damage, disorderly conduct, discharging a firearm within city limits, carrying out a drive-by shooting, and intentional acts of terrorism; and his bail is set at $1 million. , , , , , , , , 
Governor of Arizona Doug Ducey states that 21-year-old Leslie Allen Merritt Jr. is ballistically linked to four incidents and arrested in Glendale, Arizona after a SWAT raid. Merritt was previously charged twice in 2013, the first for failing to stop at the scene of a damaged vehicle, and the second for assault and criminal damage. Police state that he is known to hold anti-government and anti-police views. He is charged with four counts each of aggravated assault, criminal damage, disorderly conduct, discharging a firearm within city limits, carrying out a drive-by shooting, and intentional acts of terrorism; and his bail is set at $1 million. , , , , , , , , 
Governor of Arizona Doug Ducey states that 21-year-old Leslie Allen Merritt Jr. is ballistically linked to four incidents and arrested in Glendale, Arizona after a SWAT raid. Merritt was previously charged twice in 2013, the first for failing to stop at the scene of a damaged vehicle, and the second for assault and criminal damage. Police state that he is known to hold anti-government and anti-police views. He is charged with four counts each of aggravated assault, criminal damage, disorderly conduct, discharging a firearm within city limits, carrying out a drive-by shooting, and intentional acts of terrorism; and his bail is set at $1 million. , , , , , , , , 
Governor of Wisconsin Scott Walker quits his campaign for the Republican Party nomination. 
Hurricane Joaquin becomes a Category 4 hurricane with maximum sustained winds of 130 mph. Some additional strengthening is possible tomorrow. The storm, moving at just 6 mph, is predicted to drop 10 to 15 inches of rain in the central Bahamas with up to five inches expected for the rest of the archipelago. , 
The shooter is identified as 26-year-old Chris Harper-Mercer. , 
Twin bomb blasts in the Turkish capital Ankara near the main train station leave at least 97 people dead and over 400 wounded. The bombing occurred during a peace rally protesting the conflict between Turkey and the militant Kurdish PKK.  , , 
The UK House of Commons passes an "English votes for English laws" bill by 312 to 270 votes giving English MPs a greater say over legislation that only applies to England. The bill has been fiercely opposed by the opposition Labour Party and the Scottish National Party. 
Hurricane Patricia makes landfall at Playa Perula in Mexico's western Jalisco state . The storm strengthens into a powerful Category 5 hurricane with winds of 200 mph and gusts up to 245 mph. The NHC has called the storm "potentially catastrophic" for Mexico. Patricia is expected to produce total rainfall accumulations of 6 to 12 inches, with isolated maximum amounts of 20 inches, through Saturday. These rains could produce life-threatening flash floods and mud slides.  , 
Two suicide bombings at mosques kill at least 33 people in the northeast Nigerian cities of Yola and Maiduguri.     2015-10-24 at the Wayback Machine 
China has decided to end its controversial one-child policy after 36 years. It is to be replaced by a new two-child policy.  
China has decided to end its controversial one-child policy after 36 years. It is to be replaced by a new two-child policy.  
At least 27 people are killed and more than 180 hospitalized with injuries after a fire in a nightclub in the Romanian capital Bucharest. Officials say a heavy metal band's pyrotechnical show sparked a fire inside the Colectiv nightclub.   
Three other victims of the nightclub fire die at hospital, bringing the death toll to 30. 
Harvard Law School Professor Lawrence Lessig announces his decision,  via a four-minute YouTube video, to end his campaign for the 2016 Democratic Party presidential nomination.    
Police, at the University of California, Merced campus, shoot and kill a male student who went on a terrorist stabbing rampage that wounded four people. The University closed its campus, except for housing, and cancelled classes for Wednesday and Thursday. The school reported all of the wounded are expected to recover.    
The Merced County Sheriff identifies the attacker of four students at the University of California, Merced as freshman Faisal Mohammad. 
Cyclone Megh had sustained winds of 204 km/h (127 mph), the equivalent of a Category 3 hurricane, when it hit the island of Socotra. According to AFP, Megh killed six, injured dozens with three reported missing and 5,000 people forced to leave their homes.    
A day of mourning is held in Lebanon following two suicide attacks in the capital Beirut which killed at least 43 people. 
French police report multiple blasts and gunfire in Paris with at least 26 dead in a restaurant in the 10th arrondissement and an explosion near the Stade de France.   
Ten people are dead and eleven injured after a high-speed TGV train catches fire and derails near the northeastern French city of Strasbourg.  
A Syrian passport is found near the body of one of the gunmen who died in Friday's attacks in Paris. The holder passed through the Greek island of Leros on October 3 as a refugee, according to Greek officials. A Greek police source said the passport's owner was a young man who had arrived in Leros with a group of 69 refugees and had his fingerprints taken by authorities there. Police declined to give his name.  
Mohamed Abdeslam, brother of suspect fugitive Salah Abdeslam, and Ibrahim Abdeslam, a suicide bomber in the attacks, is released by authorities after questioning this weekend. His attorney told reporters, her client "hadn't made the same life choices."  
Human Rights Watch says that the Philippine government is detaining street children and homeless people harshly and involuntarily as part of preparations for an international summit. The government denies that the people concerned are being abused and such moves were part of a regular and year-round outreach program. 
Mali security forces launch an assault on the gunmen and all surviving hostages are freed.  
An active shooter in a Planned Parenthood facility in the American city of Colorado Springs, Colorado shoots at least four members of the Colorado Springs Police Department with one officer later dying. Two civilians were also killed, and six were injured. The shooter later surrendered.    
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg announces the invitation sent to Montenegro to join the military alliance, 16 years after the country, as part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, was bombed by the alliance in the Kosovo War. Montenegro's accession would result in "retaliatory actions", according to a spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin. , 
The United States announces a deal to sell $1.83 billion worth of arms to Taiwan, which includes two decommissioned U.S. Navy frigates, Assault Amphibious Vehicles, and surface-to-air missiles. China has also expressed its disapproval over the deal, claiming it would affect their internal affairs.   
Burkina Faso security forces storm the Hotel Splendid which had been under attack by Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb militants. Over 126 people have been freed and at least 29 people have died. , , , 
Burkina Faso security forces storm the Hotel Splendid which had been under attack by Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb militants. Over 126 people have been freed and at least 29 people have died. , , , 
This potentially record storm, which is predicted to generate blizzard conditions through a third day on Sunday, has caused at least 10 deaths, knocked out power to hundreds of thousands, led to more than 8,300 canceled flights,  stranded many travelers on major highways and, with up to 70 mph winds, produced record-high tides along the Delaware and New Jersey shores.   
At least eighty-five people are killed in Taiwan and tens of thousands stranded in airports as an unprecedented cold snap hits several Asian countries including China and South Korea. , 
U.S. federal authorities arrest militia leader Ammon Bundy and several of his followers following an exchange of gunfire at a traffic stop on U.S. Route 395 in Harney County, Oregon. One person, LaVoy Finicum, a rancher from Arizona and spokesman for the militia, was killed in the shootout. , 
NSA documents show the US and UK spied on Israeli military drones and fighter jets.  
NSA documents show the US and UK spied on Israeli military drones and fighter jets.  
Twelve nations, including the United States, sign the deal at SkyCity Auckland in Auckland, New Zealand. 
The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention rules that Julian Assange is being arbitrarily detained.   
The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention rules that Julian Assange is being arbitrarily detained.   
Military vehicles explode outside a Turkish Armed Forces barracks in Ankara, Turkey, killing at least 28 people and injuring 61 others. Authorities believe a car bomb caused the blast. A senior Turkish security source says initial signs indicate that the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) are responsible. ,   
Former Governor of Florida Jeb Bush suspends his campaign following a disappointing finish in the South Carolina primary. 
Kalamazoo County, Michigan, authorities say last evening's shooting spree resulted in six deaths with two others seriously wounded. Each victim was shot multiple times. Police acknowledge that an earlier report that a 14-year-old girl died is incorrect; she is alive, but "severely, gravely" injured. The suspect, a 45-year-old man who is an Uber driver without a prior criminal record, was taken into custody without a struggle.  
The results show Hillary Clinton winning the Democratic Party races in Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Arkansas, American Samoa. Massachusetts and Virginia while Bernie Sanders has won Vermont, Minnesota, Oklahoma and Colorado. , , , 
Ben Carson suspends his campaign for the Republican Party nomination. The expected announcement was made during a speech at the 2016 Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). 
Donald Trump postpones a rally at the University of Illinois at Chicago due to security issues amid fights between protestors and supporters. Five people are arrested, and two officers injured, according to Chicago police.   
Donald Trump postpones a rally at the University of Illinois at Chicago due to security issues amid fights between protestors and supporters. Five people are arrested, and two officers injured, according to Chicago police.   
An explosion occurs in central Ankara, Turkey, with at least 34 people killed and 125 wounded.  
An explosion occurs in central Ankara, Turkey, with at least 34 people killed and 125 wounded.  
Scotland's win over France gives England the title. 
Marco Rubio suspends his presidential campaign following a disappointing defeat in his home state of Florida. 
Boko Haram and al-Qaeda kill four security force personnel in two separate attacks in Niger. 
An explosion occurs in Taksim Square in Istanbul, Turkey, kills five people, including two dual citizenship Israeli-Americans and one Iranian citizen, and injures several dozen others. , ,  
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key settles a defamation case with freelance cameraman Bradley Ambrose, acknowledging comments he made about the man caused him professional and personal harm. 
Three explosions in the Brussels Airport and Maalbeek metro station kill at least 34 people and wound at least 170 more, according to Belgian media. Belgian federal Prosecutor Frederic Van Leeuw cautions it is too soon to know exactly how many people died in the bombings. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claims responsibility.    
Three explosions in the Brussels Airport and Maalbeek metro station kill at least 34 people and wound at least 170 more, according to Belgian media. Belgian federal Prosecutor Frederic Van Leeuw cautions it is too soon to know exactly how many people died in the bombings. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claims responsibility.    
Belgian federal prosecutor Frederic Van Leeuw  says two brothers of Belgian nationality, Khalid and Brahim el-Bakraoui, were responsible for yesterday's suicide bombings. Khalid bombed the subway station while Ibrahim bombed the airport, he added. A third suspect, who died at the airport, is identified as Najim Laachraoui, says De Standaard. A fourth suspect seen in the airport photo, who left a massive bomb at the airport that did not detonate, is unidentified and still at large.   
At least 30 people are killed in a suicide attack on a football stadium south of Baghdad, Iraq. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claims responsibility for attack. 
Six suspects are arrested in the Brussels Schaerbeek district.  
A suicide bomber from a Pakistani Taliban faction kills at least 60 people and injures 300 others at a park in Lahore, Pakistan, and the group claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it intentionally targeted Christians celebrating on Easter Sunday. An official says the explosion took place close to  Gulshan-e-Iqbal Park's children's rides.    
A suicide bomber from a Pakistani Taliban faction kills at least 60 people and injures 300 others at a park in Lahore, Pakistan, and the group claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it intentionally targeted Christians celebrating on Easter Sunday. An official says the explosion took place close to  Gulshan-e-Iqbal Park's children's rides.    
A United Nations commission rules in favour of Argentina to expand its maritime territory in the South Atlantic Ocean by 35% to include the Falkland Islands and beyond despite Argentina and the United Kingdom still having an unresolved dispute over the islands. 
In basketball, the visiting Boston Celtics defeat the Golden State Warriors, snapping the Warrior's 14-month, 54-game home win streak which leaves the San Antonio Spurs with the only undefeated home record this season.   
At least three suicide bombers attack a police station in Stavropol, Russia. 
A new aftershock with a magnitude of 5.4 hits southern Kyushu island.  A Japanese spokesman says 1,500 people have been injured, 80 seriously, since Thursday.  
A magnitude 7.8 earthquake strikes off the coast of Ecuador, near the town of Muisne. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center issues a tsunami alert for coastal areas of Ecuador and Colombia. At least 42 people are reported dead with deaths reported in the cities of Manta, Guayaquil and Portoviejo.    
According to the government of Ethiopia, the death toll from a raid carried out by attackers from South Sudan has risen to 208 from a figure of 140 a day earlier, with 108 children being kidnapped in the process. Ethiopian forces killed 60 of the attackers and says it would cross the border into South Sudan to pursue the assailants if necessary.  
Protests against President Gjorge Ivanov continue in Skopje, the capital of Macedonia, after his decision to pardon politicians involved in a scandal. 
Protests continue against President Gjorge Ivanov in Skopje, Macedonia. Opposition leader Zoran Zaev said he will only take part in EU-brokered negotiations with the government if certain conditions are met. 
Mark Selby wins the 2016 World Snooker Championship. 
Ohio Governor John Kasich suspends his campaign. He was the last Republican Party challenger to Donald Trump for the GOP presidential nomination. 
At least 64 people are killed and 87 injured in a bomb attack on a market in Sadr City, Baghdad. Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) claims responsibility.  
Tens of thousands of people are evacuated from Old Trafford shortly before kick-off between Manchester United F.C. and A.F.C. Bournemouth after a suspect package was found. A controlled explosion was then carried out within the stadium. The package is discovered to be an explosives training device left behind earlier in the week by a private company following a training exercise involving explosive search dogs. 
Ukraine's Parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, decides that the country's third largest city, Dnipropetrovsk, be renamed Dnipro as part of the decommunization drive. , 
EgyptAir Flight 804 between Paris and Cairo disappears with 56 passengers and 10 crew onboard. The plane was at 37,000 feet when it disappeared ten minutes before entering Egyptian airspace over the Mediterranean Sea. It is later reported to have crashed off the Greek island of Karpathos. Locals reported seeing a fireball.   
EgyptAir Flight 804 between Paris and Cairo disappears with 56 passengers and 10 crew onboard. The plane was at 37,000 feet when it disappeared ten minutes before entering Egyptian airspace over the Mediterranean Sea. It is later reported to have crashed off the Greek island of Karpathos. Locals reported seeing a fireball.   
The Oklahoma Legislature files a measure asking for Congress to impeach Barack Obama over his decision to allow transgender students to use the bathrooms corresponding to their gender identity. 
At least 21 are killed and more than 500,000 are displaced by cyclone Roanu in Bangladesh.  , 
The toll from landslides and heavy flooding in Sri Lanka rises to at least 73.    
British film I, Daniel Blake, directed by Ken Loach, wins the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival. 
Judge Barry Williams finds Baltimore, Maryland, Police Officer Edward Nero not guilty of all charges. Nero  was accused of second-degree intentional assault, two counts of misconduct in office, and reckless endangerment. Community leaders and elected officials appeal for calm. 
Thousands of people take to the streets of Jayapura and other towns in Papua, Indonesia, in support of the Free Papua Movement and its effort to join the Melanesian Spearhead Group. Indonesia responded with a large police and military presence, with reports of police firing on demonstrators in Wamena and arresting dozens across the province. 
Two people are killed in a murder-suicide shooting at the University of California Los Angeles. Police report the campus is now safe.   
Eleven cars from a 96-car Union Pacific oil train derail, and at least one catches fire, in the Columbia River Gorge near Mosier, Oregon, within about 20 feet of the city's sewage plant.  Coincidentally, a Wasco County Planning Department public hearing is scheduled for Tuesday concerning a Union Pacific proposal to expand an existing railroad siding on either side of Mosier.  
Mateen's father, Seddique Mir Mateen, says, "We are saying we are apologizing for the whole incident. This had nothing to do with religion." Seddique says that during a recent outing in Miami, his son got very angry when he saw men kissing and touching each other. According to the elder Mateen, Omar said, 'Look at that. In front of my son they are doing that.' 
ISIL's Amaq News Agency claims that the assault, "... was carried out by an Islamic State fighter".  
In what is the deadliest mass shooting and the worst terror attack since 9/11 to occur in the United States, a mass shooting at a gay nightclub in the U.S. city of Orlando, Florida, kills at least 50 people, including the shooter, and injures 53.   
City officials in Orlando, Florida, continue to identify the bodies of the victims in yesterday's attack. So far, 33 of the reported 49 victims have been identified and their families notified. 
A deep sea search vessel discovers the wreckage of the lost aircraft in the Mediterranean Sea.  
Georgia Representative John Lewis leads about 40 U.S. House of Representatives Democrats in a sit-in after the U.S. Senate failed to approve any of four gun control measures Monday night.  
Suspected Allied Democratic Forces rebels hack nine people to death in the village of Oicha, Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
The FBI recommends, with numerous reservations about her actions, no charges be filed against Hillary Clinton over her emails.  
Germany's parliament passes a new law saying that it is rape to have sex with a person who says "No" to the sex. Under the previous law, sex was not considered rape unless the victim fought back. The new law also classifies groping as a sex crime, makes it easier to deport migrants who commit sex offences, and makes it easier to prosecute assaults committed by a large group. 
Police kill Micah X Johnson, the gunman believed responsible for the killing of five police officers and shooting of seven more in Dallas, Texas following a standoff. 
An estimated 272 people have been killed between rival Sudan People's Liberation Army factions as clashes in the capital, Juba, continue. According to a spokesman for rebel leader and Vice President Riek Machar, South Sudan is "back to war" despite a peace deal being reached last April.  
The Permanent Court of Arbitration rules in favor of the Philippines against China over territorial disputes in the South China Sea. , 
The Permanent Court of Arbitration rules in favor of the Philippines against China over territorial disputes in the South China Sea. , 
The Turkish military claims to have gained control of the government with gunfire reported on the streets of Ankara. 
Authorities identify the attacker as a 31-year-old Tunisian resident in France, who was killed during the exchange of gunfire with police. The man was known to police in connection with petty crime, but was not on the  French intelligence service watch list.  
Russia's track and field athletes will not be allowed to compete in the Rio Olympic Games, even if they did not fail drug tests, after an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport is rejected. 
Ten people, including the gunman, are killed and 21 wounded in a shooting in and around the Olympia-Einkaufszentrum shopping mall in the Moosach district of Munich, Germany, next to the Olympic stadium.    
Ten people, including the gunman, are killed and 21 wounded in a shooting in and around the Olympia-Einkaufszentrum shopping mall in the Moosach district of Munich, Germany, next to the Olympic stadium.    
Afghan officials report at least 80 people are killed and more than 230 injured as twin suicide blasts hit a large  demonstration of the Shiite Hazara community over a power route line at Dehmazang Circle, Kabul, Afghanistan. The Islamic State claims responsibility.    
Emails released by Wikileaks show that the Democratic National Committee (DNC), led by Debbie Wasserman Schultz, supported the candidacy of Hillary Clinton over Bernie Sanders. , , , 
Fifteen people are injured following a suicide bombing in Ansbach, Germany. 
At least 19 people are killed and 26 others are injured in a knife attack at a care centre for disabled people in the city of Sagamihara, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. A man has handed himself in to the police, according to local media. 
Former president Bill Clinton, husband of Hillary Clinton, describes Hillary as a fighter who works relentlessly to make the world better. ,  
American Jimmy Walker wins the 98th PGA Championship, his first major championship. 
A man attacks two policewomen with a machete in Charleroi, Belgium, whilst reportedly shouting Allahu Akbar. The attacker was shot dead by another police officer. The policewomen are being treated in hospital for non-life-threatening wounds. The attack is being investigated as a possible act of terrorism. , 
A man attacks two policewomen with a machete in Charleroi, Belgium, whilst reportedly shouting Allahu Akbar. The attacker was shot dead by another police officer. The policewomen are being treated in hospital for non-life-threatening wounds. The attack is being investigated as a possible act of terrorism. , 
Tropical Storm Earl makes its final landfall near Veracruz in eastern Mexico, producing flooding rains that kill at least six. , 
The International Paralympic Committee bans all Russian athletes from the Paralympics due to state-sponsored sample doctoring to avoid the detection of the use of banned drugs. 
Violence breaks out in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, following a fatal police shooting of a 23-year-old male criminal armed with a handgun earlier in the day. The Milwaukee Police Department says an officer was injured after being struck in the head by a brick, while a police car and gas station were set on fire. 
A suicide bomber targets a Kurdish wedding celebration in the Turkish city of Gaziantep killing at least 22 people and wounding 94. , 
A 6.2 magnitude earthquake occurs in central Italy near the city of Perugia. The mayor of the town of Amatrice reports that residents are buried under rubble.   
The National Hurricane Center declares a hurricane watch and tropical storm warning from the Anclote River, north of Tampa, to Destin, Florida, near the Georgia border. Hermine, now at 45 mph (75 km), is expected to reach hurricane strength when it makes landfall Thursday afternoon. Florida Governor Rick Scott, with life-threatening flooding forecast, declares a state of emergency.
U.S. President Barack Obama cancels a scheduled meeting with the President of the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte, after Duterte referred to Obama as a "son of a whore", while adding "I am no American puppet", in response to Obama's recent criticism of his war on drugs.
In tennis, Swiss Stan Wawrinka defeats Serbian Novak Djokovic in four sets to claim the 2016 US Open men's singles title.
The death toll of the September 2 bombing rises to 15.
Members of the 19th South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) summit, scheduled to be held in Pakistan during November 2016, postpone the meeting following a Indian-led boycott, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Bhutan in response to Pakistan's alleged involvement in a deadly terrorist attack on a Indian Army base in Uri, Jammu and Kashmir, on September 18.
A commuter train accident at the Hoboken Terminal in New Jersey leaves one woman dead and 114 others injured. Major structural damage occurs to the station with portions of the roof collapsed.
A commuter train accident at the Hoboken Terminal in New Jersey leaves one woman dead and 114 others injured. Major structural damage occurs to the station with portions of the roof collapsed.
Scottish leader Nicola Sturgeon will introduce a bill launching a new referendum to determine the final status of the country.
Seven members of the militia who occupied the wildlife refuge, including the leader Ammon Bundy, was acquitted of all federal charges related to the takeover.
James Comey informs Congress that "the FBI has learned of the existence of emails that appear pertinent to the investigation." He says the FBI has not yet assessed the importance or significance of these emails.
In baseball, the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters defeat the Hiroshima Toyo Carp to win the Japan Series.
Vietnam reports its first microcephaly case likely to be linked to the Zika virus.
The Chicago Cubs defeat the Cleveland Indians 3 runs to 2 at Illinois' Wrigley Field in Game 5 of the 2016 World Series to avoid elimination and force a Game 6 with the series standing at 3 games to 2 in favor of the Cleveland Indians. It is the Cubs' first-ever win of a World Series game at the stadium since October 1945.
At least 52 people, including women and children, have been killed and more than 100 injured by a bomb explosion in the crowded Shah Noorani Shrine in Hub town, Lasbela District, Balochistan, Pakistan. ISIL has claimed responsibility.
A Turkish Airlines cargo jet crashes near Kyrgyzstan's Manas International Airport resulting in the deaths of at least 38 people.
Four earthquakes of magnitude 5.1 or higher strike near Amatrice, Italy, forcing evacuation of some schools and the Rome Metro. No deaths are reported from the quakes.
An Italian rescue official says a number of people have been killed by an avalanche, possibly connected to Wednesday's earthquakes, that buried a ski resort on a slope of the Gran Sasso mountain in Italy's Abruzzo region. About 30 guests and staff were at the hotel. The only survivors are two men who had been outside when the disaster struck.
An Italian rescue official says a number of people have been killed by an avalanche, possibly connected to Wednesday's earthquakes, that buried a ski resort on a slope of the Gran Sasso mountain in Italy's Abruzzo region. About 30 guests and staff were at the hotel. The only survivors are two men who had been outside when the disaster struck.
The second day of peace negotiations in Astana, Kazakhstan, end with the sponsors of the talks, Russia, Turkey and Iran, agreeing to set up commission between the three to monitor and enforce the fragile ceasefire to the Syrian Civil War.
A gunman opens fire at a mosque in Quebec City, Canada, during evening prayers. At least five people were killed. Two suspects were apprehended; one was later released.
The Department of Homeland Security says it has stopped enforcing the executive order per Judge James Robart's ruling in State of Washington v. Trump. The State Department activates visas that had been previously suspended because of this order.
President of Russia Vladimir Putin signs into law the decriminalization of domestic violence.
A car bomb explodes in the Syrian village of Sousian, north of al-Bab, killing at least 60 people.
A car bomb explodes in the Syrian village of Sousian, north of al-Bab, killing at least 60 people.
Scientists announce the finding of microfossils up to almost 4.3 billion years old, within rocks from the Hudson Bay shoreline in northern Quebec, Canada, that may represent the oldest-known evidence of life on Earth.
Israel changes its law regarding marijuana use. Instead of facing criminal charges, first-time offenders who smoke marijuana in public places will only receive a fine.
A U.S. federal judge in Hawaii, finding the revised federal immigration/refugee executive order violates the U.S. Constitution's religious establishment clause, grants the state of Hawaii's motion for a nationwide temporary restraining order on these rules that were set to become effective at midnight. President Donald Trump vows to appeal this ruling. Two other federal courts held hearings on similar requests filed by the states of Maryland and Washington; neither of these judges issued a ruling.
In response to several Israeli airstrikes against suspected Hezbollah-related targets inside Syria, Syrian president Bashar al-Assad has threatened wider war with the State of Israel, stating its intention to fire Scud missiles, and specifically target the Israeli city of Haifa. Israel responded by stating that any such actions by the Assad regime, or attacks on its aircraft, will cause Israel to "annihilate" Syrian air defense systems.
A Category 4 severe tropical cyclone travels over the Whitsunday Islands and crosses the coast of Queensland, Australia, near the town of Airlie Beach.
Georgia's visa-free regime, which allows travel to most member states of the European Union, with the exception of Ireland and the United Kingdom, enters into force.
Officials state that repairs will take months following a fire that collapsed a bridge on Interstate 85 in Atlanta, Georgia. Police arrest three individuals in connection with the disaster, charging two with criminal trespass and one with first degree criminal damage.
Consequences of heavy rain from Cyclone Debbie kill at least three people and force 20,000 others to leave their homes in New South Wales and Queensland.
A mother and two children drown after their car plunges into the flooded Tweed River, raising the death toll to eight people. A ten-year-old girl escapes and alerts authorities.
The United States launches 60 Tomahawk cruise missiles aimed at the Ash Sha'irat air base in Homs Governorate in response to the Syrian government's alleged use of chemical weapons in its attack on the town of Khan Shaykhun. The Government of Syria claims the attack killed six soldiers and nine civilians, including four children.
The death toll rises to five after a woman who fell into the River Thames dies in hospital.
North Korea announces its readiness to declare war on the United States after the country previously stated that they felt threatened as U.S. military forces approach the Korean Peninsula.
Germany arrests and charges a suspected perpetrator, 28-year-old Sergej W. The federal prosecutor says the suspect held put options on Borussia Dortmund shares.
Nigerian officials report, as a result of negotiations, Boko Haram has released an estimated 82 schoolgirls who were among about 220 kidnapped from a secondary school in Chibok in Borno State in April 2014.
Shortly after the attack began a researcher found an effective kill switch, which prevented many new infections, and allowed time to patch systems. This greatly slowed the spread. Cyber security authorities discover new versions that lack the kill switch.
Shortly after the attack began a researcher found an effective kill switch, which prevented many new infections, and allowed time to patch systems. This greatly slowed the spread. Cyber security authorities discover new versions that lack the kill switch.
Shortly after the attack began a researcher found an effective kill switch, which prevented many new infections, and allowed time to patch systems. This greatly slowed the spread. Cyber security authorities discover new versions that lack the kill switch.
The United States Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals rules that Wikimedia Foundation has the legal right to challenge the National Security Agency Upstream program of mass online surveillance. This decision reinstates the suit that had been dismissed by a Federal district judge in Baltimore, Maryland. Eight other organizations, including Amnesty International USA and the Global Fund for Women, are also plaintiffs in this case.
Fox News retracts their claims regarding the murder.
A military aircraft with 120 people onboard crashes into the Andaman Sea off the coast of Myanmar.
Gunmen attack the Islamic Consultative Assembly and Mausoleum of Ruhollah Khomeini in Tehran, Iran. Eighteen civilians are killed in the attack on the Parliament and one in the attack on the mausoleum.
James Comey, the former FBI Director who was dismissed by President Donald Trump last month, appears before the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Comey says he believes he was fired because of the FBI investigation into the possible collusion between President Trump's campaign team and Russia's interference in the 2016 elections.
The European Union's visa-free regime for Ukraine officially enters into force.
A large fire consumes the 24-storey Grenfell Tower apartment block in North Kensington, West London, with the entire building evacuated and over 40 fire engines and 200 firefighters battling the blaze. At least 17 people are dead and more people are treated for injuries, with more people possibly being trapped inside.
All 800 homes in the five tower blocks of the Chalcots Estate, in Camden, London, are evacuated after the cladding was declared to have failed fire safety tests.
Over 150 people die and dozens are injured, many critically, when an oil tanker truck overturns and explodes as people from surrounding villages gather around the truck to collect the spilling oil. The accident happened in Bahawalpur, eastern Pakistan.
Over 150 people die and dozens are injured, many critically, when an oil tanker truck overturns and explodes as people from surrounding villages gather around the truck to collect the spilling oil. The accident happened in Bahawalpur, eastern Pakistan.
Six people are charged with various offences including manslaughter by gross negligence following the Hillsborough disaster in 1989.
At least twelve people die and two others are injured after a cable car falls nearly 500 feet into a ditch in Charra Pani, Galyat, Pakistan.
Amid a stand-off between China and India in the Indian state of Sikkim, Bhutan protests to China over the construction of a road in the disputed territory of Doklam, a meeting point for all three countries' borders.
Amid growing tensions between China and India and Bhutan, China releases a map detailing pieces of land claimed by Bhutan and India as belonging to China. China claims, via the map, that territory up until Gipmochi belongs to China and claims it's supported by the 1890 Convention of Calcutta.
Amid a stand-off between China and India over the Doklam tri-junction, China tells India that former Indian prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru accepted the Convention of Calcutta which China is using to support its territorial claims. Tensions have been rising between China and India and Bhutan over Doklam since China began constructing a road in the disputed territory in mid-June.
The chief suspect in an attack on June 21, 2017, turns himself in to the police.
The 450 km-long Turkish March for Justice concludes in Istanbul at a mass rally attended by hundreds of thousands of people.
Flooding in Gujarat, Western India, kills at least 213 people with the death toll expected to rise as receding flood waters reveal additional victims. Chief Minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani says heavy rain had triggered "the worst flood of the century" in the state.
A suicide bombing took place near a Pakistan army truck in Quetta, Balochistan, Pakistan, leaving 15 people dead including 8 soldiers, while injuring 40 others.
The University of Alaska Anchorage (UAA) announces that the 2017 Great Alaska Shootout, a national college basketball tournament, will be the final competition of the 40-year-old series. UAA blames economic conditions for the termination of the long running, national competition.
Two police officials found guilty of negligence and mistreatment of evidence are sentenced to 17 years in prison. Five accused TTP militants are acquitted. The main suspect, former president Pervez Musharraf, who now resides in Dubai, is declared a fugitive for having failed to show up in court and has his property confiscated.
A series of small explosions occur at the Arkema chemical plant in Crosby, Texas, and according to the company more are expected, after floodwaters shut down the cooling systems that kept the chemicals stable. Houston Methodist San Jacinto Hospital in Baytown, Texas treated 21 first responders for chemical exposure. Residents living within a 1.5-mile (2.4 km) radius of the plant are evacuated.
Facebook tells congressional investigators an operation, traced to a Russian company seeking to target voters, spent $100,000 on thousands of U.S. ads promoting divisive social and political messages during the 2016 U.S. election.
A magnitude 8.1 earthquake is recorded 96 kilometers (60 miles) south of Pijijiapan, Chiapas, Mexico. This is Mexico's strongest quake since the 8.0 earthquake that hit the Greater Mexico City area in 1985. At least 26 deaths have been recorded.
United States Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos plans to change the sexual assault guidelines on college campuses created by the previous administration.
Hurricane Irma makes landfall in Cuba. The death toll across the Caribbean is at least 25 people, (CNN) (The New York Times)
Militants ambush a police convoy in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula killing 18 police and wounding seven others.
Russia and Belarus begin a six-day joint strategic military exercise inside Belarus and Russia's Kaliningrad Oblast. The military exercise simulates war against the fictional state of Veyshnoria. According to the Defence Ministry of Belarus, fewer than 13,000 personnel will be taking part in the exercise; however, Western analysts believe the total number will range from 60,000 to 100,000.
After 20 years "floating" the Solar System, the Cassini space probe to the Saturn system ends the mission with a controlled fall into the atmosphere of the planet.
Searches continue for possible survivors of the magnitude 7.1 earthquake that hit central Mexico yesterday. By mid-afternoon, 52 people are rescued while at least 226 people have been killed and another 800 injured.
Puerto Rico is forecast to get an additional 4 inches (10 cm) to 8 inches (20 cm) of rain through Saturday, on top of the several feet of rain that has fallen on parts of the island. Caguas has received the most, 37.9 inches (96 cm). The NHC expects 8 inches (20 cm) to 16 inches (41 cm) rain for the Dominican Republic, Turks and Caicos, and Mayaguana in the southeast Bahamas.
The U.S. State Department removes all families of employees and nonessential personnel from Cuba following apparent sonic attacks that injured 21 personnel on the island. Cuba denies any involvement and has authorized the FBI to travel to the island to help the ongoing investigation into the causes.
In the first inter-Korean talks in two years at the Panmunjeom-Paju "Truce Village" (DMZ), both parties agree on the need to ease tensions and hold military talks. North Korea also agrees to participate in the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.
The rape and murder of six-year-old girl Zainab in Pakistan has sparked outrage across the country. Two people die in protests in Kasur city.
Hundreds of thousands protest in D.C., with thousands of protesters turning out in Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, and other cities throughout the United States and the world in cities such as Rome, Italy internationally, in support of women's rights.
Hundreds of thousands protest in D.C., with thousands of protesters turning out in Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, and other cities throughout the United States and the world in cities such as Rome, Italy internationally, in support of women's rights.
Six insurgents kill at least 18 people, including 4 Afghans and 14 foreigners, in a 13-hour gun battle. The Afghan Interior Ministry says that the siege ended when the last gunman was shot dead. NATO reports that "no foreign troops" died. The Taliban claim that they sent five suicide bombers armed with hand grenades and AK-47 assault rifles. The Afghan government blames the attack on the Pakistan-based Haqqani network.
The Southern Transitional Council (STC) takes control of the Yemeni port city of Aden following two days of fierce fighting in the city which has left dozens dead. Yemeni Prime Minister Ahmed Obeid bin Daghr, and members of the President Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi-led government are confined to the presidential palace which has been surrounded.
Nancy Pelosi breaks the record for the longest speech in the United States House of Representatives. The 77-year-old Democrat spoke for eight hours non-stop, pleading for a vote to protect "Dreamer" immigrants who illegally immigrated and face the threat of deportation.
All flights to and from London City Airport are cancelled after an unexploded World War II bomb is discovered in the River Thames at King George V Dock.
Former Manchester City and Crewe Alexandra youth coach Barry Bennell is found guilty of 43 sexual attacks on twelve boys between 1979 and 1990.
Former coach Barry Bennell is sentenced to 31 years in prison for 50 offences against 12 boys between 1979 and 1990.
Several companies, including First National Bank of Omaha, Hertz, and United and Delta airlines have cut ties with the NRA following the shooting, saying that the discount deals they have with the NRA are cancelled.
A memo written by Democrats on the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence is released, countering the Republican memo released on February 2.
European Union lawmakers strike a deal on opening up the 3.6 and 26 GHz bandwidths by 2020 to make room for the new 5G network.
Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee announce the end of their Russia investigation, against the objections of Democratic members. According to the investigation's preliminary findings, the 2016 Trump campaign did not collude with the Russian government, and, contrary to the U.S. intelligence community's previous conclusions, Russia did not have a preference for Donald Trump as a presidential candidate.
Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca announces that it is shutting down due to the economic and reputational damage inflicted by its role in the global tax evasion scandal.
Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, wounded when he came to the aid of the poisoned Russian dissidents, is discharged from hospital.
The United States charges and sanctions nine Iranians and the Iranian company Mabna Institute for hacking and attempting to hack hundreds of universities.
North Korean Supreme leader Kim Jong-un meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing, on what is his first known travel outside North Korea since assuming office in 2011.
Governor Aman Tuleyev of Russia's Kemerovo Oblast resigns over the disaster last week at the Winter Cherry complex. Tuleyev himself lost a young relative in the fire, but had faced protests in the aftermath.
Military scientists at Porton Down state they are uncertain of the source of the nerve agent used, but are "completely confident" it was a Novichok agent.
Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the opposition Labour Party, calls for an investigation into comments by UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson. Johnson is facing criticisms he overstated the strength of evidence against Russia, an accusation he calls "lamentable" and accuses Corbyn of sympathizing with Russia.
Salisbury District Hospital says poisoned spy Sergei Skripal is no longer critically ill, responding well to treatment, and "improving rapidly". His daughter was previously revealed to have regained consciousness.
The FBI raid the office, hotel room and home of U.S. President Donald Trump's lawyer and spokesperson Michael Cohen, seizing records related to several topics including payments to pornographic-film actress Stormy Daniels.
Seven Myanmar Army soldiers are convicted of murder and sentenced to ten years in prison for their participation in the execution of ten Rohingyas in Inn Din.
The athletic therapist for the Humboldt Broncos, Dayna Brons, dies from injuries sustained in the crash, raising the death toll to 16.
The Mary River turtle, which is endemic to the Mary River in south-east Queensland, Australia, is added to the Zoological Society of London's list of endangered species.
The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons states it agrees with UK authorities on their analysis of the identity of the toxic chemical used against the Skripals. The UK identifies the substance as a Novichok nerve agent, of a type developed by Russia.
The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons states it agrees with UK authorities on their analysis of the identity of the toxic chemical used against the Skripals. The UK identifies the substance as a Novichok nerve agent, of a type developed by Russia.
The Parliament of Portugal passed a new law, by a 109 vote margin, making it easier for people to change their legal gender. Portuguese citizens from the age of 16 will now be able to change their gender and name in documents without the need of a medical report.
Afghan and Pakistani forces exchange cross-border fire on the Durand Line, killing two Pakistan Army troops and injuring five others.
A 35-year ban on movie theaters ends in Saudi Arabia with Marvel Studios' Black Panther being the first film to show.
A Myanmar police captain testifies in court that he and his colleagues were ordered by their superiors to entrap two Reuters journalists, who were arrested on 12 December 2017 for "possessing state secrets" under a colonial-era law. The journalists had been working on a report documenting the massacre at Inn Din.
A Myanmar police captain testifies in court that he and his colleagues were ordered by their superiors to entrap two Reuters journalists, who were arrested on 12 December 2017 for "possessing state secrets" under a colonial-era law. The journalists had been working on a report documenting the massacre at Inn Din.
The United States Federal Aviation Administration issues an emergency Airworthiness Directive for CFM56-7B jet engines. The EAD expands on previous orders requiring ultrasonic testing to search for metal fatigue in fan blades. It mandates testing on engines that have reached 30,000+ flights, believed to cover 352 US engines and 681 engines worldwide.
UK Prime Minister Theresa May announces that henceforth April 22 will be marked nationally as Stephen Lawrence Day to commemorate the black teenager murdered 25 years ago in a racist assault. The high-profile crime led to the Metropolitan Police being labeled "institutionally racist".
Morocco cuts diplomatic ties with Iran over its support for the Polisario Front, a Western Saharan independence movement.
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018 is postponed to 2019 after Jean-Claude Arnault, husband of the former Swedish Academy member Katarina Frostenson, is accused of sexual assault, resulting in her resignation, and leaving the academy without a quorum.
Donald Trump announces that the United States will withdraw from the Iranian nuclear deal.
The Guardian reports that the Grenfell Tower in London, which burned down last year with the loss of 71 lives, received a quote for non-flammable cladding but it was rejected for a more expensive option which exacerbated the fire.
Myanmar police captain Moe Yan Naing testifies in court for the second time during the trial of Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, which has become a landmark case of press freedom in the country. Naing accused his superior, police brigadier general Tin Ko Ko, of orchestrating a plot to entrap the journalists and threatening Naing and his colleagues with arrest if they did not "get Wa Lone". Naing was arrested for violating Myanmar's Police Disciplinary Act and sentenced to a one-year prison term prior to his testimony.
Myanmar police captain Moe Yan Naing testifies in court for the second time during the trial of Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, which has become a landmark case of press freedom in the country. Naing accused his superior, police brigadier general Tin Ko Ko, of orchestrating a plot to entrap the journalists and threatening Naing and his colleagues with arrest if they did not "get Wa Lone". Naing was arrested for violating Myanmar's Police Disciplinary Act and sentenced to a one-year prison term prior to his testimony.
The High Court of Australia disqualifies Senator Katy Gallagher because she held dual citizenship with the United Kingdom when elected, not renouncing it in time. Four MPs in similar situations have also resigned, setting up four by-elections.
The High Court of Australia disqualifies Senator Katy Gallagher because she held dual citizenship with the United Kingdom when elected, not renouncing it in time. Four MPs in similar situations have also resigned, setting up four by-elections.
Israeli singer Netta Barzilai wins the Eurovision Song Contest in Lisbon, Portugal, with her song Toy. This is Israel's first Eurovision win in the 21st century and fourth overall.
Malaysian longtime opposition figure and leader of incumbent government party Pakatan Harapan, Anwar Ibrahim is released from prison after obtaining a full royal pardon from King Muhammad V. Anwar was imprisoned in 2015 during the tenure of Najib Razak for charges widely considered to be politically motivated.
The wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle takes place at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle. They are given the titles the Duke and Duchess of Sussex.
Cyclone Sagar makes landfall in the Middle East and the Horn of Africa, killing at least 16 people.
US President Donald Trump directs the Department of Defense to begin the process of establishing a "space force" as the sixth military branch of the United States Armed Forces.
The United States announces its withdrawal from the United Nations Human Rights Council.
The terror trial of accused ISIL recruiter Awso Peshdary is adjourned after three days of hearings in which the court hears testimony about the path to jihad allegedly taken by two of his associates, Ottawa students John Maguire and Khadar Khalib.
The United Nations Human Rights Council issues a condemnation of the separation of migrant children from their parents, saying it "may amount to torture", and the recent executive order "does not address the situation of those children who have already been pulled away from their parents."
Saudi Arabia lifts its ban on women being allowed to drive.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel faces resistance by the Bavarian CSU over the result of the EU asylum policy summit last week.
Chancellor Angela Merkel and Interior Minister Horst Seehofer agree on a migration compromise; talks with the SPD coalition partner are following.
The Italian Wikipedia blocks all articles in protest of the European Union's copyright law.
Police determine two British nationals found unconscious at a property in Amesbury, Wiltshire, on Saturday were poisoned using Novichok nerve agent of the same kind used in the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal in Salisbury, seven miles from Amesbury, almost four months ago.
As the heat wave in Quebec comes to an end, the death toll rises to 54.
The driver of the tractor-trailer that collided with the Humboldt Broncos team bus is arrested and is expected to face 29 charges.
The death toll from a tourist boat accident off the coast of Thailand's Phuket Island climbs to 41, with 15 people still missing.
The death toll from heavy rains in Japan rises to 49.
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed meets with Eritrean President Isaias Afwerki in Asmara and they pledge to restore diplomatic relations.
Iranian police arrest a number of users for posting illegal content on Instagram, including a famous blogger named Maedeh Hojabri.
Iranian women post videos of themselves dancing to protest the arrest of Instagram blogger Maedeh Hojabri.
The death toll from a tourist boat accident off the coast of Thailand's Phuket Island climbs to 44, with five people still missing.
The heat-related death toll in the Canadian province of Quebec rises to 70, with 34 of those occurring in Montreal.
A second suspect is arrested in connection with the murder of rapper XXXTentacion.
The death toll from a tourist boat accident off the coast of Thailand's Phuket Island climbs to 46.
The death toll from heavy rains in Japan rises to 209 and 28 missing.
The evacuations of Shia towns Al-Fu'ah and Kafriya in the northern Idlib Governorate begin, as part of a deal between rebel forces and the Syrian government.
The death toll from a dam collapse in Laos that caused heavy floods rises to 26, while more than 130 remain missing.
Scientists at INAF announce the discovery of a liquid water lake beneath a polar ice cap on Mars. The discovery was made using MARSIS, a radar instrument on board the European Space Agency's Mars Express orbiter.
The six remaining cult members of Aum Shinrikyo who perpetrated the 1995 Tokyo subway sarin attack and were on death row are executed by hanging.
The UK Home Secretary Sajid Javid announces that medicinal cannabis products are to be legalized by the end of this year, allowing cannabis treatments to be legally prescribed by specialist doctors following several high profile cases.
The death toll from a dam collapse in Laos on 23 July rises to 36, while 98 people are still missing.
The death toll from the Ponte Morandi collapse in Genoa, Italy, rises to 43.
The opening ceremony of the Asian Games takes place.
Les Moonves resigns as CEO of CBS Corporation amid reports of sexual misconduct allegations and an ongoing investigation into his behavior. CBS donates $20 million to groups supporting the Me Too movement and states that this money may be deducted from Moonves' severance package depending on the investigation's results.
The death toll from the earthquake in Hokkaido, Japan rises to 44. There are now no reports of individuals missing and the search operations have been called off.
South Korean health authorities announce that they are searching for around 50 foreign nationals who may have been in contact with the recently confirmed MERS patient, including those who arrived in Incheon Airport from Dubai on the same flight last Friday.
17 people are confirmed dead after Hurricane Florence-related incidents. Florence is expected to dump an additional 10 to 15 inches of rain in parts of the Carolinas.
Islamabad High Court suspends the NAB accountability court sentences and orders the release of former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, his daughter Maryam Nawaz, and son-in-law Muhammad Safdar Awan. However, the convictions remain standing.
The Japanese space agency JAXA announces that a pair of 18-centimetre (7.1 in) tall robots successfully landed on asteroid Ryugu.
The death toll of the landslide in Cebu, Philippines rises to 53.
American actor/comedian Bill Cosby is sentenced to three to ten years in a Pennsylvania prison for drugging and sexually assaulting a woman in 2004.
A ceasefire has ended heavy fighting in Tripoli that has killed over 100 people in a month from different militias.
The death toll of the landslide in Cebu, Philippines rise to 77. Eight others are still missing and presumed dead.
At least 1,347 people are now known to have died in the aftermath of the Indonesian earthquake and tsunami.
The confirmed death toll from an earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia has risen to 1,407.
The Indonesia's disaster agency confirms the deaths of 1,944 people in the double earthquake and tsunami. 5,000 people are still missing and presumed dead.
At least three people are injured after a man firebombs a fast-food restaurant in the Cologne main station and takes a woman hostage. The woman is later rescued by German counter-terrorism units.
The death toll of the heavy floods in France rises to 14, while another person is missing.
The United States Secret Service intercepts two suspicious packages described as "potential explosive devices" addressed to former President Barack Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. One addressed to former CIA director John O. Brennan was received at CNN's New York studios, which were evacuated. Other politicians who received similar packages include U.S. Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (whose name and address was on the return label of a package meant for former Attorney General Eric Holder but had the wrong recipient address) and Maxine Waters. Authorities are also attempting to locate a suspicious package sent to former Vice President Joe Biden that was marked return to sender due to a bad address.
The New York City Police Department recovers a package similar to those found earlier this week at the office of TriBeCa Productions, which is used by actor Robert De Niro.
Authorities are also investigating a packages addressed to former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and billionaire Tom Steyer.
A suspect, Cesar Sayoc, is taken into custody in Plantation, Florida.
The FBI has confirmed that packages similar to those found earlier this week were sent to U.S. Senators Cory Booker and Kamala Harris.
An Indonesian Diving Rescue Team member dies while searching the debris from the passenger jet that crashed earlier this week near Jakarta.
Voters in Michigan legalize recreational marijuana.
At least 12 people, including a police sergeant, are killed while ten others are injured by a gunman at the Thousand Oaks Borderline Bar and Grill in Thousand Oaks, California at around 11:15 PM PST (UTC-8). The gunman committed suicide at the end of the attack after a stand-off with police.
The death toll in the Camp and Woolsey wildfires has risen to 31 with more than 200 people still missing.
The death toll in the Camp and Woolsey wildfires has risen to 31 with more than 200 people still missing.
The death toll in the Camp and Woolsey wildfires has risen to 31 with more than 200 people still missing.
The Constitutional Court of Colombia unanimously rules to strike down a five per cent tax on feminine hygiene products on gender equality grounds.
South Korea shuts down the country's largest dog meat slaughterhouse. The move is lauded by animal rights activists.
Khadim Hussain Rizvi, chief of Pakistani political party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), together with his party leaders, is arrested after TLP's refusal to postpone their call for a public rally planned for 25 November at Liaqat Bagh, Rawalpindi. Pakistan's Federal Minister for Information and Broadcasting Fawad Chaudhry clarifies that the action has no connection with the Asia Bibi case.
A Chinese scientist claims to be the first person to edit the genome of a human baby, by targeting an immune-receptor which is used by HIV (CCR5). This has provoked denial from the hospital and international outcry.
Prosecutors raid the house of Gyeonggi Province governor Lee Jae-myung amid suspicions that his wife used a pseudonymous Twitter handle to spread fake news about President Moon Jae-in and other political rivals of her husband.
Six people are killed and dozens more injured in a human stampede as frantic concertgoers try to exit a packed Lanterna Azzurra club in Corinaldo in Ancona Province, Marche, Italy, after pepper spray is reportedly fired inside the club.
New Zealand's government passes an amendment to the Misuse of Drugs Act 1975 to allow chronic and terminally ill patients to use medical cannabis without facing the possibility of prosecution.
In a third trial, former Blackwater private military contractor Nicholas Slatten is convicted on one count of first-degree murder over the 2007 mass shooting.
Voters in Bangladesh head to the polls to elect 299 representatives to parliament. Seventeen people were killed in deadly clashes between supporters and opponents of the country's ruling party.
The Congolese election commission delays announcing the results of the recent election, claiming that only half the ballots have been counted.
The Congolese election commission announces that parties supporting outgoing president Joseph Kabila obtained the majority in the National Assembly.
The Congolese government rejects a request by the African Union to delay the announcement of the final result of the 30 December 2018 general election, which is being appealed in the country's Constitutional Court amidst accusations of election fraud.
A 21-year-old man shoots and kills five people, including his parents and girlfriend, in two Louisiana parishes. The suspect fled to Virginia and was arrested the next day.
U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announces that the United States is suspending its role in the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, an agreement made in 1987 with the USSR (and, by extension, its successor state Russia) banning both countries from possessing or testing nuclear and conventional intermediate-range missiles, as well as their launchers, citing Russian non-compliance with the treaty.
Two aftershocks strike Anchorage, Alaska, the first a magnitude 4.1, and the second a magnitude 3.7, occurring 23 minutes later.
Washington Governor Jay Inslee declares a state of emergency as a winter storm that could bring up to 8 inches (20 cm) of snow begins to affect the state.
United States Senator Elizabeth Warren announces her intention to run for President of the United States in the 2020 United States presidential election.
Cities in the Seattle metropolitan area receive 10 inches (25 cm) of snow, the most in 70 years.
Retired NASA astronaut Mark Kelly announces that he will run for the 2020 United States Senate special election in Arizona.
At least 27 Iranian Revolutionary Guards are killed after a suicide bombing attack in southeastern Iran. The attack is claimed by Jaish ul-Adl militants.
At least 46 members of India's security forces are killed when a suicide bomber blew himself up as a convoy of military vehicles drove on a highway in Jammu and Kashmir.
Kaduna State governor Nasir el-Rufai reports the death toll from Friday's attack in Kajuru is now more than 130, most from the Fulani ethnic group. Nigerian authorities have not identified the gunmen's motive, but they do not believe the attack was related to the upcoming election.
Voters in Cuba are asked whether they approve of a new constitution that gives criminal defendants the presumption of innocence, recognizes private property, bans some forms of discrimination, creates a term limit for the president, and restores the position of Prime Minister.
The 91st Academy Awards are presented in Hollywood. Bohemian Rhapsody wins a leading four awards, followed by Black Panther, Green Book, which won Best Picture, and Roma, with three awards each.
The 91st Academy Awards are presented in Hollywood. Bohemian Rhapsody wins a leading four awards, followed by Black Panther, Green Book, which won Best Picture, and Roma, with three awards each.
Pakistan reports that Indian military aircraft violated their airspace near Muzaffarabad and were intercepted by Pakistan Air Force (PAF) military aircrafts. Indian Air Force aircrafts in a haste dropped their payload which fell near balakot. India claims that the incident was an airstrike on a alleged Jaish-e-Mohammed camp in Balakot in retaliation to the Pulwama attack days earlier.
Following Vladimir Putin's warning that Russia would deploy nuclear missiles in Europe if the United States deploys intermediate-range nuclear missiles in Europe, Putin's ally Dmitry Kiselyov lists what he claims are the targets in the United States, which includes The Pentagon, Camp David, Fort Ritchie, McClellan Air Force Base, and Jim Creek Naval Radio Station. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov denies the existence of the target list.
Following Vladimir Putin's warning that Russia would deploy nuclear missiles in Europe if the United States deploys intermediate-range nuclear missiles in Europe, Putin's ally Dmitry Kiselyov lists what he claims are the targets in the United States, which includes The Pentagon, Camp David, Fort Ritchie, McClellan Air Force Base, and Jim Creek Naval Radio Station. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov denies the existence of the target list.
At least 23 people are confirmed dead, many are injured, and 10,000 customers are without electricity after several tornadoes strike Lee County in southeast Alabama.
Intel makes Thunderbolt 3 open and royalty-free and gives the specification to USB Implementers Forum, while USB Promoter Group announces the USB4 specification that is based on Thunderbolt 3. USB4 supports 40 Gbps transfer rates and enables the use of multiple data and display protocols simultaneously.
The floods from the predecessor of Cyclone Idai cause 23 deaths and 11 missing in southern Malawi.
The European Union, Australia, India, Malaysia, Singapore, and Turkey ground all Boeing 737 MAX 8 jets. This means 40% of the global fleet is now grounded, with Indonesia, China and several airlines grounding their aircraft yesterday. Boeing states they will issue a software update for the model within weeks.
Canada and the United States ground all Boeing 737 Max 8 and Max 9 aircraft and ban the jet from their airspace until further notice. It is now effectively grounded worldwide, with no operators remaining unaffected by grounding orders.
Prosecutors in Northern Ireland charge a former British Army soldier with murdering two people during the mass shooting in Derry during the Troubles in 1972, following a contemporary police investigation. The man, known only as Soldier F, is also charged with three attempted murders. It is also announced that no other charges against either soldiers or civilians will be brought due to insufficient evidence. Soldiers shot 28 unarmed protestors, killing 13.
In response to a possible accidental launching of two rockets from the Gaza Strip towards Tel Aviv the day before, Israel launches hundreds of counter strikes directed at the town of Khan Yunis.
Cesar Sayoc pleads guilty to 65 felony counts, including using weapons of mass destruction, in last year's attempted mail bomb domestic terrorist attacks.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller delivers a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 elections to Attorney General William Barr, who is expected to summarize the findings for congressional lawmakers in the coming days.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections does not find that any US officials or Trump campaign members knowingly conspired with the government of Russia. Mueller drew no conclusions about whether Trump illegally obstructed justice.
The European Parliament approves two revisions to the controversial Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market. One resolution includes new requirements aimed at making companies pay licensing fees to publications such as newspapers whose work gets aggregated by online services. The second revision makes online platforms such as Google, Facebook and YouTube liable for the content posted on their services, meaning that all content providers must get permission from rights holders before uploading copyrighted material of any kind.
The first death due to cholera is confirmed in Mozambique, with confirmed cases rising to 517.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expels former ministers Jody Wilson-Raybould and Jane Philpott from the Liberal Party of Canada.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expels former ministers Jody Wilson-Raybould and Jane Philpott from the Liberal Party of Canada.
Amor Ftouhi is sentenced to life in prison for stabbing a police officer at Bishop International Airport in Flint, Michigan, United States in June 2017.
The redacted version of the report by Special Counsel Robert Mueller is released by U.S. Attorney General William Barr. The investigation did not find any conspiracy between President Donald Trump and the Russian government regarding the accusation that they collaborated to win the 2016 presidential election. The report did not rule out if the Trump administration committed obstruction of justice. The Department of Justice also stated some members of Congress will receive a less-redacted version of the report in the near future.
According to exit polls, comedian Volodymyr Zelensky wins Ukraine's presidential run-off election over incumbent President Petro Poroshenko with more than 70 percent of the votes. Poroshenko concedes defeat.
A series of explosions at churches and hotels in four cities in Sri Lanka, including the nation's commercial capital and largest city Colombo, kills at least 359 people and wounds around 500 others. ISIL has since claimed responsibility for the attacks.
Sixteen people are killed when a magnitude 6.1 earthquake strikes the municipalities of Porac and Lubao, Pampanga province, Philippines at 17:11 Philippine Standard Time.
The United States demands that all countries cease purchasing oil from Iran by May 1 or face sanctions, in a move aimed at reducing Iran's income.
The Progressive Conservative Party of Prince Edward Island wins its first minority government since the Island's 1890 general election; while the Green Party of Prince Edward Island has beaten the Prince Edward Island Liberal Party by taking most of all their seats and becoming the province's new Official Opposition party, a first for any Green Party in North America.
The death toll in cyclone-hit northern Mozambique has risen to 38, as aid workers struggle to reach the worst-affected areas. Seven people were also killed by the cyclone in Comoros.
Sixteen soldiers, including a driver, are killed in a landmine explosion in the Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra, India. Maoist insurgents are currently active in the area, leading officials to believe them to be responsible.
The California Senate passes a bill that would keep Donald Trump out of the 2020 presidential primaries until he releases his tax returns.
The California Senate passes a bill that would keep Donald Trump out of the 2020 presidential primaries until he releases his tax returns.
At least 41 passengers are killed after Sukhoi Superjet 100 (flight SU1492), which suffered an inflight fire, is engulfed by fire after an emergency crash landing at Sheremetyevo International Airport, Moscow, Russia. A five-person crew and 73 passengers were on board.
Voters in North Macedonia head to the polls for the second round of the 2019 presidential election. Stevo Pendarovski of the Social Democratic Union of Macedonia wins over his opponent Gordana Siljanovska-Davkova.
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani sends letters to the P5+1 leaders of the United Kingdom, China, Russia, Germany, France and the European Union announcing the country's partial withdrawal from the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action agreement. Furthermore, Iran announces that it will stop exporting uranium and heavy water from its nuclear program.
Egils Levits, a Judge of the European Court of Justice, is elected President by the Saeima.
A mass shooting in Darwin, the capital of Australia's Northern Territory, leaves four people dead and another injured at five different locations. The 45-year-old suspect, who had been on parole since January, is arrested. Authorities say the shooting was not terrorism-related.
A mass shooting in Darwin, the capital of Australia's Northern Territory, leaves four people dead and another injured at five different locations. The 45-year-old suspect, who had been on parole since January, is arrested. Authorities say the shooting was not terrorism-related.
The United States announces new restrictions on American travel to Cuba. Effective Wednesday, travel via cruise ships or other conveyances, including private yachts or airplanes, is prohibited. Group travel under the previous "people-to-people educational" provision is also not allowed.
The United States announces new restrictions on American travel to Cuba. Effective Wednesday, travel via cruise ships or other conveyances, including private yachts or airplanes, is prohibited. Group travel under the previous "people-to-people educational" provision is also not allowed.
The United States announces new restrictions on American travel to Cuba. Effective Wednesday, travel via cruise ships or other conveyances, including private yachts or airplanes, is prohibited. Group travel under the previous "people-to-people educational" provision is also not allowed.
The Labour Party holds the Peterborough seat in the by-election, defying predictions that they would lose the seat to the Brexit Party. The seat was vacated after a successful recall petition against its previous MP Fiona Onasanya.
The United States notifies Turkey that it will cancel Turkey's purchase of F-35 fighter jets if the government goes ahead with purchasing Russia's S-400 missile defense system.
The wreckage of An-32 aircraft was found in Arunachal Pradesh with all 13 people on board killed. India Today
Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel announces that charges will be dropped against eight people in the Flint water crisis and investigations will be restarted in the scandal, which has plagued the city since 2014.
Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel announces that charges will be dropped against eight people in the Flint water crisis and investigations will be restarted in the scandal, which has plagued the city since 2014.
An unnamed United States official claims that, just prior to the attack on two merchant vessels, an Iranian vessel launched a surface to air missile at a MQ-9 Reaper drone in the vicinity of the attack. An additional MQ-9 Reaper is reported to have been shot down by Houthi rebels several days prior in the Red Sea.
The president of the Japanese shipping company offers a different account of the attack than that provided by the United States. Yutaka Katada says the Filipino crew of the Kokuka Courageous oil tanker said their vessel was apparently first hit by an artillery shell rather than a mine. The United States said the tanker was attacked by limpet mines and released a video it says shows Iranian special forces removing an unexploded mine from the oil tanker's side.
The death toll of Indian children who have died due to an acute encephalitis syndrome outbreak reaches 100.
Chris Davies, Member of the UK Parliament for the Welsh constituency of Brecon and Radnorshire, is removed from his position following a successful recall petition in the wake of his conviction for fraudulent expense claims. A by-election will be held to replace Davies.
NASA awards $1 billion to the Dragonfly mission, which will use a dual-quadcopter drone to explore Titan for signs of life.
James A. Fields Jr. is sentenced to life in prison after pleading guilty to 29 hate crimes for driving his car into a crowd of protestors, killing one and injuring 28, at the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Carola Rackete, the captain of a migrant rescue ship, is arrested in Italy for docking without authorization after Italy closed its ports to rescue organizations.
U.S. President Donald Trump, together with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, meets North Korean leader Kim Jong-un at the Joint Security Area, becoming the first sitting U.S. president to step foot in North Korea. Trump also invites Kim to the White House to resume talks about denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula.
The U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means sues U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin and Commissioner of Internal Revenue Charles Rettig to obtain six years of U.S. President Donald Trump's tax returns.
Tunisian Prime Minister Youssef Chahed announces that the niqab will be banned in public institutions effective immediately, citing security concerns following a pair of suicide bombings on June 27.
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo signs a bill that will allow congressional committees to access President Donald Trump's state tax returns.
The Gippsland GA8 Airvan is grounded in Australia, New Zealand and the European Union following a fatal crash on July 14.
U.S. Attorney General William Barr resumes the federal usage of the death penalty. Five inmates are expected to be executed between December 2019 and January 2020. If carried out, these would be the first federal executions in the United States in sixteen years.
A gunman opens fire at the Gilroy Garlic Festival in Gilroy, California, killing three people and wounding at least twelve others. The gunman is killed after engaging with the police. Police believe an accomplice is still at large.
A gunman opens fire at the Gilroy Garlic Festival in Gilroy, California, killing three people and wounding at least twelve others. The gunman is killed after engaging with the police. Police believe an accomplice is still at large.
In golf, Japan's Hinako Shibuno wins the year's final major championship by one shot over American Lizette Salas. Shibuno, a 20-year-old rookie on the Japan LPGA Tour, was playing outside her home country for the first time, and was also playing for the first time in a major recognized by the U.S. LPGA.
A mass shooting occurs at a bar in the Oregon Historic District of Dayton, Ohio, United States. Nine people are killed and at least 27 others are injured. The shooter Connor Betts is killed by police.
At least 75 people have been killed and 60 injured in a fuel tanker explosion in Morogoro, Tanzania.
In response to reports that U.S. President Donald Trump expressed interest in the United States acquiring Greenland, Greenland's Foreign Minister Ane Lone Bagger dismisses the idea, noting on Twitter that "a better and more equal partnership with Denmark should be the way forward for a stronger and longer-term free Greenland".
The death toll of a suicide bombing during a wedding in Kabul, Afghanistan, four days ago, increases to 80.
The Congressional Budget Office forecasts a deficit of US$1 trillion next year, up from the previous estimate of $892 billion.
The death toll of a suicide bombing during a wedding in Kabul, Afghanistan, four days ago, increases to 80. 
The Congressional Budget Office forecasts a deficit of US$1 trillion next year, up from the previous estimate of $892 billion. 
Indonesia cuts off Internet in the provinces of Papua and West Papua amid pro-independence unrest.
Indonesia cuts off Internet in the provinces of Papua and West Papua amid pro-independence unrest.  
Voters in Nauru go to the polls to elect new members of parliament. President Baron Waqa loses his parliamentary seat so he is not able to be re-elected in the office he has been holding since 2013.
Voters in Nauru go to the polls to elect new members of parliament. President Baron Waqa loses his parliamentary seat so he is not able to be re-elected in the office he has been holding since 2013.  
Hezbollah says two Israeli drones went down in the Moawwad neighborhood of Dahieh (South Beirut), Lebanon, and they did not shoot them. A small reconnaissance drone fell on the roof of the Hezbollah media building, then another drone exploded nearby, causing damage to the building. Residents report a loud blast. The Israeli Army says it does not comment on "foreign reports". The Lebanese Army confirms the drones as Israeli.   
Indonesian President Joko Widodo announces North Penajam Paser and Kutai Kartanegara regencies as location of the future capital of Indonesia. He says government will prepare a bill to submit in the House of Representatives as soon as possible.
The Civil Aviation Authority of South Africa concludes its investigation with a final report indicating the accident was caused by poor maintenance and errors by unqualified pilots.
The Civil Aviation Authority of South Africa concludes its investigation with a final report indicating the accident was caused by poor maintenance and errors by unqualified pilots. 
The Japan Transport Safety Board concludes its investigation into a fatal collision between USS Fitzgerald and Filipino container ship ACX Crystal. The board's final report concludes distraction and incomplete radar information aboard the US Navy vessel caused the accident. 
An Afghan citizen stabs nine in Lyon, France, killing a 19-year-old. 
Georgian Prime Minister Mamuka Bakhtadze announces his resignation on Facebook. 
The United States Coast Guard says that 25 people died, nine went missing and five crew members have been rescued after a fire on a diving boat near Santa Cruz Island, off the coast of California. 
Search and rescue efforts for those remaining missing off the Californian coastline are called off as the National Transportation Safety Board arrives to launch a federal investigation. 
Walmart announces it will stop selling ammunition for handguns and some assault weapons in all of its American stores in response to a shooting that killed 22 and injured 24 at one of its El Paso, Texas stores last month. It and Kroger also ask customers not to bring guns into the stores. 
Russia and Ukraine swap prisoners on a "35-to-35" basis, including Oleg Sentsov, Mykola Karpyuk, Olexandr Kolchenko, Roman Sushchenko, and 24 Ukrainian Navy sailors detained by Russia during the 2018 Kerch Strait incident. The exchange includes Kirill Vyshinsky. The Dutch government says it "seriously regrets" that Volodymyr Tsemakh is included in the swap. U.S. President Donald Trump lauds the move as "perhaps a first giant step to peace."    
The Syrian government condemns the operation as a "flagrant violation of international law." 
The Turkish Armed Forces conduct their first joint patrol with the United States Armed Forces near the Syrian town of Tell Abyad, within the context of the Northern Syria Buffer Zone agreement. 
A study ordered by the Canadian government finds that exposure to anti-mosquito fumigation, which contains cholinesterase-inhibiting neurotoxins, coincides with brain damage causing the same symptoms as those associated with the syndrome. 
British travel company Thomas Cook enters compulsory liquidation, leaving 150,000 British holidaymakers stranded abroad and endangering 22,000 jobs worldwide. In response, the UK government and the Civil Aviation Authority launches Operation Matterhorn, the largest repatriation in the UK's peacetime history.  
An estimated two million people across the world participate in strikes to encourage action on climate change, with a total of 6 million during the week, including up to 500,000 protesters in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.  
Mads Pedersen wins the men's Road race World Championship as the first rider from Denmark ever. 
The main border crossing between Al-Qa'im, Iraq, and Albukamal, Syria, reopens. 
A man stabs five people at the central police headquarters in the French capital of Paris, killing three officers and an administrative worker. The attacker, who was shot dead by other officers, was an admin worker at the station. 
Sources for The New York Times allege that two American diplomats presented a statement for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to sign wherein Ukraine would commit to investigate Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden.  
Counter-terror investigators confirm the man who killed four people at Paris police headquarters two days ago was a convert who adhered to Islamist extremism and had contact with Salafists. 
Citing human rights issues, the United States Department of Commerce puts 20 Chinese public security bureaus and eight high tech companies, such as HikVision, SenseTime and Megvii, on the Export Administration Regulations entities blacklist. Like Huawei, which was sanctioned on an identical blueprint for national security reasons, the entities will need U.S. government approval before they can purchase components from U.S. companies.  
Two people are killed and two others are injured in attacks by a man wearing military camouflage near a synagogue and at a kebab shop in Halle, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. Shots are also reported in nearby Landsberg. A suspect, 27-year old Stephan Billiet, is arrested. The attack had been livestreamed on Twitch for 35 minutes citing anti-Semitic and racist motivations.   
Gunmen kill 16 people during prayers in a northern Burkina Faso mosque. 
China and the United States announced a tentative agreement for the "first phase" of a trade deal, with China agreeing to buy up to $50 billion in American farm products with the United States agreeing to suspend new tariffs scheduled for October 15. 
Prominent Kurdish Syrian politician Hevrin Khalaf is dragged from her vehicle on the M4 Motorway and summarily executed along with her driver and eight civilians by Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army militants. The killings were recorded by the militants, which has since been spread on social media. 
The Syrian Democratic Forces agree to allow the Syrian Army to enter the SDF-held cities of Manbij and Kobani in an attempt to deter Turkey from attacking the towns.   
The Syrian Democratic Forces agree to allow the Syrian Army to enter the SDF-held cities of Manbij and Kobani in an attempt to deter Turkey from attacking the towns.   
At the Old Bailey in London, Salih Khater is sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of fifteen years. 
The Supreme Court of Spain sentences the twelve Catalan independence leaders between 9 and 13 years in prison and disqualification from holding public office for sedition and misuse of public funds. While it proves the existence of violent outbreaks, it judges they are not sufficient to convict for rebellion.  
In the early hours of the morning, the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces hands over control of Tabqa, and the nearby Tabqa Airbase in the Raqqa Governorate to the Syrian Army.  
Police in Anchorage, Alaska charge Brian Steven Smith, who was arrested on October 8 for the murder of Kathleen Jo Henry, with a second murder, that of Veronica Abouchuk. Smith reportedly confessed to killing Abouchuk and told authorities where her body could be found. 
The Kurds say that Turkey is already violating the ceasefire agreement by shelling the border town of Ras al-Ain. 
Authorities abruptly stop updating the results, causing concern among opposition politicians and the Organization of American States, which has election observers in Bolivia. Before the results were halted, incumbent President Evo Morales held 45 percent of the vote and former President Carlos Mesa held 38 percent. 
As a result of the local government failing to reconvene in time, the Northern Ireland (Executive Formation etc) Act 2019 comes into effect. This means abortion is decriminalized in Northern Ireland, and same-sex marriage is scheduled to commence in February 2020. 
The British Parliament votes 329 to 299 to pass the Withdrawal Agreement Bill, but then rejects the proposed timetable in a separate 322 to 308 vote. Speaker of the House of Commons John Bercow says the bill is now "in limbo", and Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to consult with European Union leaders for the time being. 
Indonesian investigators conclude their probe of the disaster with the release of a 353-page final report. The report states the crash was caused by a combination of flawed software design by Boeing, a failure of Lion Air to ground the jet over issues it had previously experienced, and inappropriate pilot responses to the developing emergency. 
A gunman opens fire on a mosque in Bayonne, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, France, wounding two before being detained. The perpetrator is an 84-year-old man who ran for the National Front in the 2015 regional elections. 
The United States House of Representatives votes 405 to 11 to officially recognize the Armenian Genocide as a genocide for the first time. Turkey condemns the resolution, describing it as "a meaningless political step", and that "its sole addressees are the Armenian lobby and anti-Turkey groups".  
After months of delay, the Supreme Court of Samoa accepts a closed court bail hearing for two defendants accused of attempting to assassinate Prime Minister of Samoa Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi. A third defendant who pleaded guilty is due to be sentenced on November 1. 
The Armed Forces of DR Congo (FARDC) began a new large scale offensive against the Allied Democratic Forces rebel group in the Congo's North Kivu province. 
The Cook Islands announces it will retain its ban on homosexual practices by men and that it will be extended to women as well. Homosexuals face up to seven years of imprisonment on the islands. 
Gordon Sondland, the United States Ambassador to the European Union, reverses his previous testimony, admitting to a quid pro quo in the withholding of military aid for Ukraine. 
Several dozen policemen were seen joining the protests against Evo Morales' government in at least three cities. Bolivia's defence minister stated that no "military measures" would be taken against the policemen, but added that he would "get" the disobedient officers.  
Bolivian President Evo Morales announces new general elections after accusations of fraud.  
Hours after the announcement, Morales resigns from the presidency amid pressure from the military and the police in what he deemed a 'coup'.  
The center-right Citizens, the third national force going into the elections, goes from 57 seats in Congress to just 10, the biggest seat loss in the election. Albert Rivera quits as Citizens' leader as a result.  
Drinking water supplies to La Paz and El Alto, Bolivia's top two largest cities, are cut off.  
Bolivian police use tear gas to break up a peaceful pro-Morales counter-protest in La Paz, then block about a dozen pro-Morales senators from entering the nation's legislature. Pro-Morales demonstrators respond with cries of "dictatorship" and throw stones at the police. 
Bolivian police use tear gas to break up a peaceful pro-Morales counter-protest in La Paz, then block about a dozen pro-Morales senators from entering the nation's legislature. Pro-Morales demonstrators respond with cries of "dictatorship" and throw stones at the police. 
At least eight people were killed and dozens injured in Sacaba after security forces fired on supporters of ousted president Evo Morales.  
At least eight people were killed and dozens injured in Sacaba after security forces fired on supporters of ousted president Evo Morales.  
Bolivian riot police fire tear gas to break up a funeral procession that had turned into massive anti-government protest.   
Bolivia's new interior minister, Arturo Murillo, files a criminal complaint against former President Evo Morales for alleged sedition and terrorism.  
The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) unanimously votes to label Chinese telecommunications giants Huawei and ZTE as national security risks, thereby disqualifying them from the Universal Service Fund. In a separate vote, the FCC mandates that national wireless carriers remove both companies' products from their existing networks. The companies have 30 days to appeal. 
A car bomb detonates in Tell Abyad, Raqqa Governorate, killing ten people and wounding 25 others. 
Fijian Health Minister Ifereimi Waqainabete warns that police will be deployed to areas under quarantine if people continue not to respect the order to stay at home if they have measles, amid an ongoing outbreak of the illness in various Pacific island nations.  
Two Roman Catholic priests are sentenced to more than 40 years in prison for sexually assaulting deaf children at a church school in Mendoza Province, Argentina; the school's gardener also receives an 18-year sentence.  
The United Nations blames anti-vaccination messages for the current outbreak of measles in the Pacific island nation, where the death toll has risen to 39 and is expected to rise as 200 are reported hospitalised, according to the World Health Organization. Total cases now soar to near 3,000.  
Twenty more bodies are found under destroyed buildings after the earthquake in Albania two days ago, bringing the death toll to 50 people. 
It is expected that there will be 70 deaths from the illness, and at least 6,500 people will be infected by the highly infectious disease. 
A terrorist mass stabbing at London Bridge kills two civilians and injures three others. The attacker, Usman Khan, wearing a fake explosive belt, is shot dead by police on the bridge. Khan was a former prisoner convicted of terrorism offences, and had links to Islamist terrorist groups. 
The Prime Minister of Samoa, Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, says that he will propose a law which would penalize parents who refuse to vaccinate their children, amid an ongoing epidemic that has killed 44 people, mostly children under the age of four. 
Police urge people to respect the curfew. Authorities order that children stay at home and announce that Christmas celebrations and public gatherings have been cancelled in order to prevent the epidemic from spreading even further. The death toll from the outbreak now stands at 53.   
Police urge people to respect the curfew. Authorities order that children stay at home and announce that Christmas celebrations and public gatherings have been cancelled in order to prevent the epidemic from spreading even further. The death toll from the outbreak now stands at 53.   
Amid the imposed curfew, the Samoan government asks unvaccinated families to display a red flag or red cloth in front of their homes to warn others and to aid mass vaccination efforts as the death toll hits 60 and confirmed cases surpass 4,000. 
U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announces the U.S. House of Representatives will begin to draft articles of impeachment against U.S. President Donald Trump before the Christmas recess. 
The shooter was a Saudi national who was being trained at the Naval station. His name was later released to be Mohammed Saeed Alshamrani. 
Voters in Bougainville vote overwhelmingly for independence from Papua New Guinea. However, the Papua New Guinea government will have the final say on accepting it or not. 
The attack on a kosher grocery in Jersey City is officially labeled an act of domestic terrorism and antisemitism. 
The House Judiciary Committee votes along party lines to pass two articles for impeachment against President Donald Trump. The House of Representatives is expected to hold two votes, one for each charge, on Wednesday, December 18. 
The government of Samoa extends the state of emergency until December 29 when it was due to end on December 15. There have been 72 deaths and more than 5,100 cases to date.  
At least seven people are confirmed dead while 37 more are injured after a magnitude 6.9 earthquake strikes Matanao, Davao del Sur, in the Philippines.  
Mayor Sajid Ampatuan, also a brother of Mayor Andal Ampatuan Jr., and 55 others are acquitted. 
Three people are killed in violent clashes between protesters and police in Mangalore and Lucknow. 
A court in Saudi Arabia sentences five people to death for the 2018 killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Three other defendants are given prison sentences totalling a combined 24 years, and another three are acquitted. 
The Constitutional Court of Turkey orders the immediate lifting of the block of Wikipedia in Turkey, ruling it a violation of the freedom of expression. In response to the news, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales says, "Welcome back, Turkey!" 
A Fokker 100 plane with 98 people on board crashes while taking off from Almaty International Airport, Kazakhstan, killing 12 and injuring about 60 others. 
A suicide truck bombing at a security checkpoint in Mogadishu kills at least 79 people and injures 149 others. No group has claimed responsibility. 
Al-Shabaab, an ally of Al-Qaeda, claims responsibility for the suicide bombing in Mogadishu, Somalia, that killed nearly 90 people. 
Police arrest six people in connection with a mass shooting last month in Fresno, California, that left four people dead and another six injured. 
Supporters of Iraqi paramilitaries withdraw from the American embassy in Baghdad after being ordered to by the Popular Mobilization Forces, stating the "message has been heard". 
At least 21 people are killed and over 19,000 displaced as flash floods hit the Indonesian capital of Jakarta. 
An elderly woman dies of suffocation while leaving a Brisbane, Queensland-originated Qantas plane at Canberra Airport. Canberra's air quality had been reported as the worst in the world because of heavy smoke from the bushfires in New South Wales. 
A second person is confirmed dead in the East Gippsland region of Victoria as thousands of people are evacuated from Mallacoota by sea. State premier Daniel Andrews has declared a state of disaster in six government areas. 17 people remain missing. 
U.S., Canadian, British and Iraqi officials say they believe the plane crash near Tehran in which 176 were killed yesterday was likely caused accidentally by an Iranian anti-aircraft missile, while Iran says it was due to "mechanical failure".   
The New York Times releases a verified video obtained from an Iranian citizen showing the plane being struck by what appears to be a surface-to-air missile. 
A bombing claimed by the Islamic State at a mosque in Quetta, Balochistan, Pakistan, kills at least 15 people and wounds 18 others, three days after a motorcycle bombing in the city killed two. 
The death toll from the attack on Niger's armed forces on Thursday rises to over 89 Niger soldiers. 
Analysis of a meteorite found in Australia in 1969 reveals stardust formed 5 to 7 billion years ago, older than Earth's 4.6 billion year-old sun, making the meteor and its stardust the oldest solid material ever discovered on Earth. 
Houston Astros general manager Jeff Luhnow and manager A. J. Hinch are suspended by Major League Baseball for the entire 2020 season after the league concludes its investigation into the team's illegal use of technology to steal signs during the team's championship 2017 season. They are also fired by the organization. 
Officials within Buckingham Palace announced that effective around Q2 2020, Prince Harry and his wife Meghan, Duchess of Sussex will retain, but will no longer publicly use, the style His/Her Royal Highness, and will no longer receive public funds for royal duties. 
Thousands of protesters gather in Richmond to protest tighter gun laws in the U.S. state of Virginia. 
A case of Chinese coronavirus is also confirmed in South Korea. 
Chinese premier Li Keqiang has urged decisive and effective efforts to prevent and control the epidemic. 
Birmingham Yardley MP Jess Phillips drops out of the UK Labour Party leadership race. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announces the first U.S. case of novel coronavirus in Snohomish County, Washington. 
A C-130 water bomber crashes in southern New South Wales, Australia, while helping control a bushfire. Three American firefighters are killed. 
Singapore confirms its first case of new coronavirus, a 66-year-old Chinese man from Wuhan who was travelling with his family. 
General Secretary of the Communist Party of China Xi Jinping holds a special Party Politburo meeting where he says that the country faces a "grave situation" as he warns the virus is "accelerating its speed". 
Billie Eilish sweeps the major categories winning Song of the Year, Record of the Year, Album of the Year, and Best New Artist. 
Retired NBA player Kobe Bryant, his daughter Gianna Bryant, baseball coach John Altobelli, and six other people are killed in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, U.S. 
An unpublished manuscript of former National Security Advisor John Bolton's book The Room Where It Happened reveals that President Donald Trump told him that unfreezing military aid to Ukraine was conditional on their performing investigations into Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton. 
A leading group on the prevention and control of the outbreak is established, led by Chinese Premier Li Keqiang. The leading group decides to extend the Spring Festival holiday to contain the outbreak. 
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang visits Wuhan, the epicenter of the pandemic, to direct epidemic prevention.
U.S. President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu unveil a peace plan developed by the Trump administration for three years. The plan recognizes Israeli sovereignty over major settlement blocs in the occupied West Bank, as well as the annexation of the Jordan Valley, in exchange for a freeze on new Israeli settlements in certain areas for four years. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas dismisses the plan as "nonsense", while Israeli opposition leader Benny Gantz casts his support for the plan. 
Algeria reopens its embassy in Dhaka, after closing it in 1990. 
The Guardian becomes the first major news outlet to stop accepting ads from the fossil fuel industry.  
Three people are injured after a man attacked people with a machete in Streatham High Road, London, United Kingdom. The attacker is shot dead by police. The incident is declared as terrorism-related. 
Li Wenliang, the doctor who tried to issue the first warnings about the pandemic, dies after contracting the virus. 
A soldier opens fire in a military camp and a shopping center in Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand, killing 29 people and injuring 58 others before being shot dead by police the next day. It is considered the deadliest mass shooting in the country's history.  
A soldier opens fire in a military camp and a shopping center in Nakhon Ratchasima, Thailand, killing 29 people and injuring 58 others before being shot dead by police the next day. It is considered the deadliest mass shooting in the country's history.  
A man in Hampshire was killed when a tree fell onto his car on the A33 road as a result of high winds. 
The first death from the disease inside Europe occurs in France. He was an 80-year-old Chinese tourist who had arrived in Paris with symptoms of the illness on January 16. 
Prosecutors in Japan announce they are officially seeking the death penalty against Satoshi Uematsu for stabbing 19 disabled people to death in 2016. 
U.S. federal officials charge Hector Alejandro Cabrera Fuentes, a Mexican citizen, in Miami for allegedly acting on behalf of a Russian agent who recruited him to collect information about the U.S. government and met repeatedly with him in Moscow.  
A Dutch appeal court reinstates order for Russia to pay $50 billion over Yukos. 
U.S. federal officials charge Hector Alejandro Cabrera Fuentes, a Mexican citizen, in Miami for allegedly acting on behalf of a Russian agent who recruited him to collect information about the U.S. government and met repeatedly with him in Moscow.  
An earthquake in West Azerbaijan Province, Iran, kills at least nine people and injures more than a hundred others. 
Pakistan closes its border from Taftan with Iran due to increasing cases of coronavirus in Iran. 
Seventy-six more coronavirus cases are confirmed in Italy, bringing the number of the cases in the country to 155. 
Turkey closes its border with Iran and halted incoming flights due to more cases of coronavirus in Iran. 
Seventy-four more coronavirus cases are confirmed in Italy, bringing the number to 229. Four more virus-related deaths are confirmed, bringing the death toll to seven. 
Portugal reports its two first cases. 
President Trump announces he will visit Tennessee on Friday. 
Ukraine reports its first case. 
Liechtenstein reports its first case. 
Two people who died in the Seattle area on February 26 are found to have died from COVID-19, bringing the total death toll in the state of Washington to nine. 
Officials in Republika Srpska reports the first case of COVID-19 in the country. 
Iranian Islamic Consultative Assembly member and former Ambassador to Syria, Hossein Sheikholeslam, dies after becoming infected with COVID-19. Iran suspends its parliament indefinitely. 
Officials in Republika Srpska reports the first case of COVID-19 in the country. 
The Ministry of Health of Argentina confirmed the country's first death due to COVID-19, a 64-year-old man who had traveled to Paris who also had other health conditions. This marks the first death due to COVID-19 in Latin America. 
Three new COVID-19 cases are registered in Russia (one is in Kaliningrad Region, one is in Belgorod Region, one is in Moscow Region). All of them visited Italy within the past 14 days. 
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte extends the quarantine lockdown, to cover all the region of Lombardy and 14 other northern provinces, affecting over a quarter of the national population. 
Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte extends the lockdown from Northern Italy to the whole country. 
Ireland cancels all the Saint Patrick's Day parades. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plummets 1,800 points on opening, 500 points lower than pre-market futures trading. 
Before markets open, the Dow Jones Industrial Average futures posted a 1,300-point drop due to the coronavirus and a fall in the price of oil. The drop would be the most points the Dow has dropped in a single day.  
Before markets open, the Dow Jones Industrial Average futures posted a 1,300-point drop due to the coronavirus and a fall in the price of oil. The drop would be the most points the Dow has dropped in a single day.  
Chinese Communist Party general secretary Xi Jinping visits Wuhan, the epicentre and origin of the pandemic, after an unprecedented lockdown of the central city of 11 million people. 
Community of La Rioja suspends all classes for two weeks. 
Colorado Governor Jared Polis declares a state of emergency after a total of 17 presumptive cases of COVID-19 are reported in the state. 
Qatar announces 238 new cases of confirmed COVID-19 cases in a single day. 
Moldova suspends all schools, universities and colleges for two weeks in order to prevent the spread of the virus. 
Sweden reports its first death from COVID-19, a person in their 70s. 
American film producer Harvey Weinstein is sentenced to 23 years in prison for two felony sex crimes.  
All three major United States trading indexes fall 7% during early trading, leading to a 15-minute trading halt. They all closed over 9% down. 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average falls by 10%, the largest one-day percentage drop since Black Monday in 1987. 
It is announced that all Broadway theatres will go dark until the week of April 13, by order of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. The ban also affects several television shows which film with live audiences in New York City.  
Prime Minister Erna Solberg announces a national lockdown, closing schools, kindergartens, fitness centres, hair salons, sports and cultural events are suspended and restrictions applied to restaurants. 
India's first COVID-19 death is confirmed in Karnataka. 
Andorran authorities confirms the second case in the country. 
The Government announces that it will close all schools from March 16. 
The National Hockey League announces the suspension of its season. 
Major League Baseball announces the cancellation of all remaining spring training games and the delay of Opening Day of the regular season by at least two weeks. 
President Rodrigo Duterte announces "community quarantine" in Metro Manila, Philippines, implementing travel restrictions to and from the metropolitan area. 
Five more presumptive cases of COVID-19 are reported in Arkansas, prompting Governor Asa Hutchinson to order school closings in four counties. 
School districts across the state close due to coronavirus concerns. 
Five more presumptive cases of COVID-19 are reported in Arkansas, prompting Governor Asa Hutchinson to order school closings in four counties. 
Minister of Health Paulette Lenert announces the closure of schools from 16 to 27 March and bans visits at hospitals and care homes. 
California Governor Gavin Newsom bans gatherings of more than 250 people. The ban puts several television shows filmed in the Los Angeles metropolitan area with live audiences on hiatus. 
The Nepalese government suspends climbing of Mount Everest for tourists and halts visas for visitors until April 30. 
Queen Letizia suspends her agenda and self-isolates for an expected two weeks after meeting with an infected Minister. Both the King and Queen have tested negative. 
Michigan confirms it now has 25 cases of COVID-19, more than double than reported the previous day. 
The Prime Minister Xavier Espot announces in a special public appearance that orders the closure of all public establishments except basic stores, pharmacies and gas stations during two weeks.  
The Prime Minister Xavier Espot announces in a special public appearance that orders the closure of all public establishments except basic stores, pharmacies and gas stations during two weeks.  
Augusta National Golf Club postpones the 2020 Masters Tournament. 
Ahead of the one-year anniversary of two far-right terror attacks on mosques in Christchurch that killed 51 people, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announces the cancellation of a national remembrance service as a precaution due to the coronavirus. 
President Nikos Anastasiadis, in a special televised appearance, announces the closing of all borders except for nationals for 15 days since 15 March. 
Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont orders the closing of all schools for at least two weeks, beginning March 16. 
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo reports his state has confirmed 613 cases of COVID-19, with two deaths today.  
After 66 cases of COVID-19 are confirmed in Georgia, Governor Brian Kemp declares a public health emergency. 
Michigan reports eight more confirmed cases of COVID-19 since yesterday, for a total of 33. 
The Government of the Republic of San Marino orders a nationwide quarantine until April 6. 
In an unprecedented move, Colorado Governor Jared Polis orders the closure of all downhill ski areas for a week, citing coronavirus concerns. 
The corruption trial of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, originally slated to open on March 17, has been delayed to May 24 due to restrictions on public gatherings enacted to stop coronavirus spread. 
The Jerusalem Islamic Waqf announces the closure of the Al-Aqsa Mosque and Dome of the Rock to upend contamination of the holy sites from COVID-19. 
The United Kingdom's Department of Health and Social Care reports 232 new confirmed cases of COVID-19 and 14 more deaths. The UK government says a "wartime-style" mobilisation will be enforced in the coming weeks to tackle the virus. 
Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson announces the closing of all public schools in the state beginning March 17 over coronavirus concerns. 
Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer reports the state now has 20 more confirmed cases of COVID-19 than yesterday, for a total of 53. 
The COVID-19 cases in Andorra amount to 14 after a rise of 9 on the day with the highest cases registered. Prime Minister also announces the stoppage of construction and industry for 8 days.  
The COVID-19 cases in Andorra amount to 14 after a rise of 9 on the day with the highest cases registered. Prime Minister also announces the stoppage of construction and industry for 8 days.  
Finland's Prime Minister Sanna Marin declares a state of emergency and closes all schools until April 13 in response to the coronavirus. 
Basque and Galician elections, both scheduled for 5 April are postponed until the crisis is overcome. 
The first death from COVID-19 is confirmed in Wales. The 68-year-old patient was being treated at Wrexham Maelor Hospital. 
A court in Japan sentences Satoshi Uematsu to death for one of the country's worst mass murders, in which he killed 19 disabled people. 
Turkey's Directorate of Religious Affairs imposes a nationwide ban on all prayer gatherings in mosques. 
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte declares a Luzon-wide "enhanced community quarantine" during the second day of the already community quarantined Metro Manila. 
Major League Baseball announces that the season will be postponed indefinitely, after the recommendations from the CDC to restrict events of more than 50 people for the next eight weeks. 
Pfizer signs a deal with BioNTech to help develop a vaccine. 
An earthquake with a magnitude of 5.7 hits Salt Lake City, Utah, with several aftershocks reported and tens of thousands of residents left without power. The earthquake is the largest in the state since the 1992 St. George earthquake. 
Burkina Faso reports its first death from COVID-19, a 62-year-old diabetic woman. 
Former Massachusetts Governor Bill Weld ends his presidential campaign for the Republican nomination in the 2020 U.S. presidential election. 
Hawaii says that it will not allow the passengers of two cruise ships heading for its coast to disembark upon arrival due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, despite both ships reporting zero cases of COVID-19. 
Despite calls for the cancelation of the 2020 Summer Olympics due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Greece hands the Olympic flame over to Japan in a ceremony without spectators. 
Two more people die from COVID-19 in Michigan and the total number of cases in the state rises to 334. The two fatalities are identified as an 81-year-old and a woman in her 50s with underlying health conditions.  
Two more people die from COVID-19 in Michigan and the total number of cases in the state rises to 334. The two fatalities are identified as an 81-year-old and a woman in her 50s with underlying health conditions.  
The first death from COVID-19 is reported in Paraguay, a 69-year-old man who had been hospitalized in intensive care, while the total of those infected rises to 18. 
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo issues a statewide stay-at-home order for all New Yorkers except for essential errands such as grocery shopping or for medical services. 
The United Arab Emirates announces its first two deaths from COVID-19. 
Dubai Municipality begins an 11-day sterilization campaign in an effort to contain the coronavirus. 
Illinois Governor J. B. Pritzker issues a statewide stay-at-home order for all Illinoisans except for essential errands such as grocery shopping or for medical services. 
A fourth death from COVID-19 is reported in Michigan, a man in his 50s with underlying health conditions in Oakland County. 
Disinfection begins in La Trinidad, the capital of the Philippines province Benguet, in an effort to contain the coronavirus. 
International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach says that canceling the 2020 Summer Olympics due to the coronavirus pandemic "is not on the agenda," but says it is too early to make a decision. 
Fiji confirms its second case of COVID-19. 
Michigan says eight people have died from COVID-19. 
A 5.3-magnitude earthquake hits Zagreb, Croatia. Seventeen people are injured; one passes away. The earthquake is Zagreb's largest since 1880.   
Dubai-based airline Emirates announces that it will be suspending all passenger flights effective March 25 in response to the coronavirus pandemic, but will continue to operate cargo flights for essential goods. 
Uzbekistan orders companies in Tashkent to do remote working and makes protective masks as an effort to contain the coronavirus. 
Prime Minister Scott Morrison announces the country is shutting down non-essential services effective midday Monday for pubs, clubs, gyms, cinemas and places of worship, while restaurants and cafes will have to switch to takeaway only. The number of cases in Australia has risen to 1,315. 
Fiji confirms its third case of COVID-19. 
The government announces that a lockdown of Tashkent will begin on March 24. 
Malta's government announces that citizens who test positive for COVID-19 and disobey self-isolation rules will be fined 10,000 euros. 
The Spanish Army has found elderly people abandoned and dead inside retirement homes, according to Defence Minister Margarita Robles. A criminal investigation has been launched. 
Mayor of Toronto John Tory declares a state of emergency for the city of Toronto. 
Mayor of Toronto John Tory declares a state of emergency for the city of Toronto. 
Downing Street says Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab is the "designated survivor" to replace Prime Minister Boris Johnson if he became "incapacitated" due to COVID-19. The clarification comes after the issue was raised by MP Peter Bone. 
The British government announces that ExCeL London will be turned into a 4000-bed hospital to open next week, staffed primarily by military medics. 
Saudi Arabia reports the country's first death from COVID-19, as the total number of cases rises to 767. The patient was an Afghan expatriate. 
Premier Li Keqiang says that the spread of the epidemic has been basically blocked and the outbreak controlled within China. 
Premier Li Keqiang says that the spread of the epidemic has been basically blocked and the outbreak controlled within China. 
Roman Curia confirms three more cases, raising to four. 
Despite a week-long lockdown, Easter Island (Rapa Nui) reports its first case of coronavirus. 
The Palacio de Hielo ice rink in Madrid begins to be used as a morgue as the city's funeral homes are not able to hold all COVID-19 victims. 
New Zealand reports 40 new cases of coronavirus. 
Samoan Prime Minister Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi announces that people will be fined for breaking the new restrictions of movement due COVID-19. 
Charles, Prince of Wales tests positive for COVID-19 while Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall tests negative; both now self-isolate due to the health classifications. 
The United Arab Emirates is expected to impose night curfew to tackle COVID-19 as the country begins a nationwide disinfection campaign. 
Ethiopian President Sahle-Work Zewde pardons more than 4,000 prisoners in an attempt to prevent coronavirus spread. 
Samoa begins a national lockdown announced by the Prime Minister. Those who do not comply with the lockdown's requirements will be fined. 
Brenton Tarrant pleads guilty to murdering 51 people and attempting to murder 40 as well as a terrorism charge in relation to two mass shootings in Christchurch, New Zealand, on 15 March 2019. 
An 84-year-old inmate at HMP Littlehey in Cambridgeshire has become the first UK prisoner to die from COVID-19, according to the Ministry of Justice. 
Abu Dhabi crown prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad discusses the COVID-19 pandemic on phone. 
Secretary of State for Health and Social Care Matt Hancock tests positive for COVID-19. 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson tests positive for COVID-19. He will self-isolate at 10 Downing Street. 
President Donald Trump approves Michigan's request for emergency declaration. 
The Department of Health and Social Care reports 260 more deaths from COVID-19, the highest daily death toll in the country to date, bringing the United Kingdom's death toll to 1,019 with 17,089 confirmed cases. The patients included in the new figures were aged between 33 and 100 years old, with the majority being in England. 
The USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in Queens, New York City, will be converted into a temporary 350-bed field hospital to treat overflow patients from other hospitals in New York. 
Maryland Governor Larry Hogan and Virginia Governor Ralph Northam issue stay-at-home orders. Virginia's stay-at-home order will remain in effect until June 10. 
Maryland Governor Larry Hogan and Virginia Governor Ralph Northam issue stay-at-home orders. Virginia's stay-at-home order will remain in effect until June 10. 
The government of the Solomon Islands orders all schools closed to combat COVID-19. 
A 12-year-old girl dies from COVID-19 in Belgium, becoming Europe's youngest victim to date. 
Turkmenistan's government bans the usage of the word "coronavirus" in all public settings and also bans the use of face masks. The government maintains there are no cases in the country. 
Israeli Health Minister Yaakov Litzman tests positive for COVID-19 and will go into quarantine, as total number of cases in Israel rises to 6,092. 
Taiwan donates 10 million masks to countries hardest hit by COVID-19. 
The President of New Caledonia Thierry Santa self-quarantines after a member of his crisis management team tested positive for COVID-19. 
Queen Elizabeth II gives an address to the nation, just the fifth such event in the monarch's  68-year reign, where she compares social isolation to the world war evacuations, thanks the public for their resilience and the world for unifying. 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson is admitted to hospital 10 days after testing positive for COVID-19. 
A bridge between the towns of Caprigliola and Albiano Magra in Tuscany, Italy, collapses. It results in only minor injuries of two truck drivers. , , 
Somalia reports its first death from COVID-19 as the cases reach 12. 
Cyclone Harold hits Tonga. 
Cyclone Harold hits Tonga. 
Michigan's death toll from COVID-19 surpasses 1,000. The state has 1,076 deaths and 21,504 cases as of this date. Governor Gretchen Whitmer also extends the state's stay-at-home order, which was set to expire on April 13, until April 30, and adds several new social distancing restrictions.  
Michigan's death toll from COVID-19 surpasses 1,000. The state has 1,076 deaths and 21,504 cases as of this date. Governor Gretchen Whitmer also extends the state's stay-at-home order, which was set to expire on April 13, until April 30, and adds several new social distancing restrictions.  
Kiribati postpones its parliamentary elections for a week. 
The tornado outbreak continues from Easter Sunday across the Southeastern United States. At least 30 people are confirmed dead. 
Officials of the State Emergency Service of Ukraine announce the successful extinguishment of all open fires in the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. 
At least 18 people in Nigeria have been killed by police during the enforcement of measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. 
The COVID-19 critical care NHS Nightingale Hospital Birmingham is opened inside the National Exhibition Centre in Solihull, England. It can treat up to 4,000 COVID-19 patients. 
The government extends the country's lockdown for at least another three weeks. 
Nigerian Chief of Staff to the President Abba Kyari dies from COVID-19 in Lagos. Kyari is the highest profile person to die from the virus in Nigeria so far. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control reports 493 total cases and 17 deaths from COVID-19. 
A killing spree occurs in the small coastal town of Portapique, near Truro, Nova Scotia, Canada. At least 17 people are dead, including the perpetrator and a Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer, making it the deadliest rampage in Canadian history.  
Saudi Arabia announces the Great Mosque of Mecca and Al-Masjid an-Nabawi, the two holiest mosques in Islam, will remain closed throughout Ramadan this year. 
The Lebanese Parliament legalizes cannabis farming for medicinal purposes, in hopes that it will bring revenue to the country. 
The death toll in last Sunday's killing spree in Nova Scotia, Canada, rises to at least 23, including the perpetrator. 
The government bans vehicles from entering or leaving the Jakarta metropolitan area to prevent Mudik, a local observance in which migrants and migrant workers return home for Ramadan. 
A survivor of the terrorist mass shooting that occurred at El Paso, Texas in August 2019 dies after nine months of hospitalization, raising the death toll to 23. 
A suicide bombing, using a fuel tanker, detonates at a busy market killing at least 53 civilians, including 11 children, in Turkish-occupied Afrin, Syria. The Turkish defense ministry accused the People's Protection Units (YPG) of "carrying out the attack."  
The United States surpasses one million cases of COVID-19. 
ISIL claims responsibility via its Amaq News Agency for a bombing that killed and wounded several Egyptian Army personnel near the city of Bir al-Abd in North Sinai Governorate. 
The armed forces of the Democratic Republic of Congo announce that 12 soldiers were killed in an attack by militants in Ituri Province over the weekend. 
The death toll from a styrene gas leak in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, India, rises to 13. 
Four civilians are killed in Ghor, Afghanistan, when police open fire on protesters who grew angry at the local distribution of food, which they said favored those with political connections. Two policemen also are killed. Police say they responded when protesters tried to enter the governor's house. 
In Kabul, gunmen wearing police uniforms open fire, killing at least 24 people, including two newborns, in the maternity ward of a hospital. Security forces kill the attackers. In Kuz Kunar, a suicide bomber kills at least 32 people at a funeral. 
Lesotho reports its first case, an asymptomatic person who returned from Saudi Arabia. Eighty others test negative. 
Plans to restart the 2020 AFL season on June 11 have been halted after the South Australian government announced it would not allow the Adelaide and Port Adelaide clubs to be exempt from the 14-day mandatory quarantine. Western Australian-based teams Fremantle and West Coast have plans to temporarily relocate to Gold Coast, Queensland. 
A truck bomb explodes near a court in Gardez, Paktia, Afghanistan, killing five civilians. The Taliban claims responsibility, calling it a retaliation to statements by President Ashraf Ghani blaming the group for an attack on a maternity hospital two days ago. 
The government of Mozambique announces that 50 Islamist insurgents have been killed in recent operations in Cabo Delgado Province. 
Michigan passes 50,000 cases of COVID-19, the seventh state in the U.S. to do so. As of this date, this state has 50,079 reported cases, causing 4,825 deaths. 
The first tropical storm  of the 2020 Atlantic hurricane season is presently off the United States eastern coast. Arthur has sustained winds of 40 mph (65 km/h), is moving north-northeast at 13 mph (20 km/h), and will move near or east of the North Carolina coast on Monday. The official start of the Atlantic hurricane season is June 1.  
Gunmen storm a mosque in Afghanistan's central Parwan Province, killing seven people and wounding 12 others. 
Michigan becomes the fourth state in the U.S. to pass 5,000 deaths from COVID-19. The state has 5,017 reported deaths and 52,350 total cases. 
Citizens of Burundi head to the polls to elect their president and the members of the National Assembly. Following a campaign marred by violence, the election takes place amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and a social media blackout. Regional and international election observers have been blocked from monitoring the election, raising doubts about its fairness. 
Todd Muller defeats Simon Bridges to become the new leader of the National Party, and the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Bulgarian captain of Portuguese-flagged cargo ship the Tommi Ritscher, who was kidnapped along with seven other sailors by pirates off the coast of Benin last month, is freed. The captain was kidnapped at the port of Cotonou in the Gulf of Guinea on April 19. 
In Kyoto, Japan, Shinji Aoba is arrested. He was moved from the hospital and charged for an arson attack at an animation center in July 2019, which killed 36 people. Aoba had been unable to be arrested due to the severe injuries he sustained during the attack.  
In Kyoto, Japan, Shinji Aoba is arrested. He was moved from the hospital and charged for an arson attack at an animation center in July 2019, which killed 36 people. Aoba had been unable to be arrested due to the severe injuries he sustained during the attack.  
The 2020 Boston Marathon is officially canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It is the first time in the event's 123-year history that the annual running had to be canceled. A modified version of the race, scheduled for September 14, will be run virtually, and runners who complete the marathon track in six hours or less will be eligible for the 2021 Boston Marathon. 
Hundreds of Minnesota National Guard are deployed in Minneapolis to enforce a night curfew, after Mayor Jacob Frey declared a state of local emergency amid civil unrest, but rioting and arson fires continue. 
A Federal Protective Service officer is killed and another injured in an overnight drive-by shooting outside the Ronald V. Dellums Federal Building in Oakland, California, amid protests over the killing of George Floyd five days prior. 
Many major cities around the United States implement curfews meant to prevent a second night of riots, including Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus, Denver, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, Milwaukee, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Portland, Rochester, Salt Lake City, and Seattle. 
A protester in St. Louis dies after being accidentally struck by a truck during the protests. 
Rioting and looting continue overnight in cities all over the United States as 12 states activate the national guard to defuse the situation.  
Rioting and looting continue overnight in cities all over the United States as 12 states activate the national guard to defuse the situation.  
Prosecutors conclude a bar owner who fatally shot a protester during protests in Omaha, Nebraska, acted in self-defense and therefore will not press charges against him. 
Two bystanders are shot and killed by "outside agitators" during protests in Cicero, Illinois. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating a possible link between the May 30 drive-by shooting that killed a Federal Protective Service officer at Oakland, California, to a shootout in the Santa Cruz Mountains yesterday, which left a deputy dead and two other officers injured. The gunman, who was armed with a rifle and improvised explosive devices, was also wounded and taken into custody. 
The Brazilian government alters the country's COVID-19 death toll on the Health Ministry's website following a change in protocol for the release of pandemic-related data to the general public. President Jair Bolsonaro orders interim minister Gen. Eduardo Pazuello to limit the number of divulged deaths to under 1,000 per day.  
At least 10 Ivorian soldiers are killed and six others wounded at the border with Burkina Faso when an armed group ambushed them; one of the attackers was also killed. It is the first attack in the country since the 2016 Grand-Bassam shootings. 
The Fulton County medical examiner declares Rayshard Brooks' death a homicide. Brooks was shot in the back by an Atlanta Police officer while fleeing from an attempted arrest for driving under the influence in which he stole an officer's taser and fired it at him on June 12. 
Fulton County authorities charge a woman with arson in relation to an Atlanta Wendy's restaurant being burnt down the day after police killed Rayshard Brooks there after he fled when they tried to arrest him for DUI. The woman's lawyer said she was Brooks' girlfriend. , 
Major League Baseball Commissioner Rob Manfred unilaterally implements a 60-game season. Players will report to training camps on July 1 in order to resume spring training and prepare for a July 23 or 24 Opening Day. 
FIFA announces that the 2023 Women's World Cup will be jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand. 
Six people are injured in a mass stabbing in central Glasgow, Scotland. The attacker was shot dead by police. 
An employee is killed and four others injured in a mass shooting at a Walmart distribution center in Red Bluff, California, United States. The shooter was then confronted by responding police officers and fatally shot during a shootout. 
At least 23 civilians are killed when rockets hit a cattle market in Sangin, Helmand. The government and the Taliban blame each other for the attack. 
The Indian Ministry of Information Technology blocks 59 Chinese apps, including video sharing app TikTok, citing security and privacy concerns. The bans come as tensions mount between the two countries over the recent border skirmishes. 
In a letter to President Felix Tshisekedi, King Philippe of Belgium addresses the atrocities in the Congo Free State under the rule of King Leopold II: "I would like to express my deepest regrets for the wounds of the past, the pain of today, which is rekindled by the discrimination all too present in our society." 
Fiji quarantines 160 peacekeeping soldiers who returned from the Middle East on Saturday after the army had expressed concern that some of the troops may have been in contact with infected people. 
Conservative candidate and opposition leader Luis Abinader is proclaimed the winner, ending 16 years of centre-left rule. 
Michigan reports no new deaths from COVID-19 for the first time since March 17. 
President Jair Bolsonaro tests positive for COVID-19. 
In its annual report, Germany's domestic intelligence agency BfV warns consumers that personal data they provide to Chinese payment companies or other tech firms, such as Tencent, Alibaba and others, could end up in the hands of China's government. 
The bus driver who was left brain dead after being attacked by passengers who refused to wear face masks in Bayonne, France, dies of his injuries. 
California Governor Gavin Newsom orders further restrictions and prohibitions on indoor activities, building on previous orders. California has seen a sustained rise in COVID-19 cases in recent weeks, resulting in the state pausing and rolling back some reopening plans. 
At least seven ships are burnt following an unspecified incident in the Iranian port city of Bushehr.  
Michigan reports 891 new cases, its highest single-day new case total since May 14. 
The Government of Canada rejects an exemption for the Toronto Blue Jays to play their home games in Rogers Centre in Toronto. 
The Government of Canada rejects an exemption for the Toronto Blue Jays to play their home games in Rogers Centre in Toronto. 
Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler renews calls for federal troops to leave the city, accusing them of "using abusive tactics against protesters." 
A gunman carrying explosives takes 16 people hostage aboard a public bus in Lutsk, Ukraine. Police said they identified the man, who had expressed frustrations with the Ukrainian system on social media. All the hostages are freed unharmed following the gunman's surrender to police after hours of negotiations, shortly before the President Volodymyr Zelensky gave into one of the gunman's demands and posted a video on Facebook saying, "Everyone should watch the 2005 film Earthlings."  
Israeli MPs pass a bill to begin the process to outlaw conversion therapy, being the first Middle Eastern country to do so. The bill was passed as two of the main coalition parties joined the opposition in supporting it. It must pass two more approvals to become a new law. 
The UN says approximately 500 gunmen attacked a Masalit community in West Darfur, looting, burning down houses, and killing more than 60 people. 
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell cancels the preseason due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Former Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak is found guilty by the Malaysian High Court and sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment and fined RM210 million (US$47 million). The High Court convicted Najib on all seven counts of abuse of power, money laundering and criminal breach of trust[disambiguation needed] over misappropriating over RM42 million (US$ 10 million) from 1Malaysia Development Berhad's former subsidiary SRC International to his personal bank accounts.   
Former Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak is found guilty by the Malaysian High Court and sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment and fined RM210 million (US$47 million). The High Court convicted Najib on all seven counts of abuse of power, money laundering and criminal breach of trust[disambiguation needed] over misappropriating over RM42 million (US$ 10 million) from 1Malaysia Development Berhad's former subsidiary SRC International to his personal bank accounts.   
St. Louis County prosecutor Wesley Bell announces that Darren Wilson, the Ferguson police officer that shot and killed Michael Brown, will not be charged. 
Fiji reports its first death from COVID-19. Health minister Ifereimi Waqainabete reported it as a 66-year-old man who had been repatriated from India where he had been receiving treatment. The man apparently contracted it while in India. 
Nearly 8,000 people are evacuated from the town of Cherry Valley, California, United States, due to a growing wildfire. The Apple Fire has burned over 20,500 acres and is five percent contained. 
Sri Lanka holds parliamentary elections after the parliament was dissolved by president Gotabaya Rajapaksa in March. Originally scheduled to be held in April, the election was postponed twice due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. 
Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko says security forces have arrested "a number of" U.S. citizens, just days before the country goes to the polls for a presidential election. In the speech, Lukashenko claims Belarus is the victim of a "hybrid war", and that "we should expect dirty tricks from any side". 
At least 22 people are dead and dozens of others injured due to flood and landslides in Kerala, India. 
Eighteen people are dead and dozens of others are injured, including fifteen seriously, after an Air India Express plane carrying 191 people overruns the runway in Calicut International Airport, Kerala, India. 
An earthquake with a magnitude of 5.1 hits near the small town of Sparta, North Carolina. Shaking was felt throughout the U.S. East Coast, though no damage and injuries are reported. The earthquake is the largest in the state since 1916. 
A landslide during floods at a tea plantation in Kerala, India, leaves at least 49 people dead. It is feared that many more people are buried under debris. 
Israel launches multiple airstrikes in the Gaza Strip after incendiary balloons launch from Gaza into Israel. 
The violent clashes took place in eastern Bangalore, Karnataka, India. The violence cause the death of at least 3 people in police firing while injuring 60 police personnel during the clashes. 
New Zealand reports its first cases of community transmission in 102 days, four cases in a single family. Auckland will move to Alert Level 3 from August 12 at 12 noon until midnight on August 14. The rest of the country will move to Alert Level 2. 
Iraq cancels a ministerial meeting and summons the Turkish ambassador as Iraq blames Turkey for a drone strike that killed two high-ranking Iraqi military officers. Officials called it a "blatant Turkish drone attack" in the autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq. 
A ScotRail train derails near Stonehaven, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, following torrential rain and thunderstorms, killing three people, including the driver. 
Lithuania allows "unrestricted entry" to all Belarusians "for humanitarian purposes" amid anti-government protests and political repression in neighbouring Belarus. Existing COVID-19 restrictions will not apply to Belarusians. 
The United Kingdom's economy officially enters recession for the first time since 2009, according to Chancellor Rishi Sunak. 
The Japanese bulk carrier Wakashio, which stranded on a reef in Mauritius last month, breaks in half. Approximately 1,000 tonnes of oil spilled into the ocean. Most of the oil had been pumped out before the ship broke in half in the afternoon. Around 166 tonnes of oil remained after the break, and authorities are working to remove it. Scientists call it the biggest environmental disaster ever in Mauritius. France says it will help with the cleanup. Japan's ministry of environment announced that it will send officials and other specialists to look at the damage. 
Members of the right-wing group  Proud Boys clash with counter-protesters in Kalamazoo, Michigan, with police carrying out nine arrests, including a local newspaper reporter. 
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern postpones the upcoming general election from 19 September to 17 October due to a recent resurgence of COVID-19 cases. , 
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern postpones the upcoming general election from 19 September to 17 October due to a recent resurgence of COVID-19 cases. , 
The European Union's High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell condemns the attempted coup, rejecting any anticonstitutional change and calls for dialogue. He also announces that contacts are being made to decide the international community's response. 
Bamako and the Presidential Palace is reportedly under the control of coup forces with tanks and other military vehicles on the streets. Anti-government protesters set fire to a Ministry of Justice building, while hundreds of opposition supporters gather on the streets to celebrate the coup. 
The Special Tribunal for Lebanon finds Salim Ayyash, a senior member of Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, guilty of assassinating former Prime Minister Rafic Hariri in Beirut in 2005, following a five-year trial. 
The United Nations Security Council unanimously approves a resolution condemning the coup and calling on the soldiers to return to their barracks and release all detainees. 
Forty people are arrested while protesting Operation Legend in Detroit. Police also used tear gas and pepper spray on the crowd of about 100 people. 
Australia's Northern Territory re-elects the incumbent Labor Party government. 
Austria expels a Russian diplomat following a report accusing the envoy of being involved in economic espionage after an Austrian who works in a technology company confessed that he carried out espionage for years on behalf of the Russian, who was his intelligence handler. 
Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers deploys the National Guard to maintain "public safety" after police shot Jacob Blake on Sunday. Hundreds of people marched on police headquarters that night to demonstrate against the shooting. Up to 200 members of the National Guard will be deployed. 
The United Nations formally rejects the United States's request to reimpose its sanctions against Iran via the "snapback" provision of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA), citing the Security Council's opposition due to the country's withdrawal from the JCPoA in 2018. 
The Africa Regional Certification Commission announces that they have declared Africa free of polio. 
The Hellenic Parliament formally ratifies a maritime agreement with Egypt, that defines maritime boundaries and an exclusive economic zone between the two countries in the Mediterranean Sea. 
Australian Brenton Harrison Tarrant is sentenced to life imprisonment without possibility of parole, a first in New Zealand history, for killing 51 people in last year's mass shootings at two mosques in Christchurch. 
The Liberal Democratic Party in Japan is set to pick the next Prime Minister around September 15 after the sudden resignation of current Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Former defense minister Shigeru Ishiba and former foreign minister Fumio Kishida announce they intend to run but Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga and defense minister Taro Kono are considered the potential candidates. Environment minister Shinjiro Koizumi is also a candidate but deemed "too young" by party's veterans. 
American fast food company McDonald's is sued by 50 black owners for racial discrimination. According to the lawsuit, McDonald's steered black franchisees to stores which had lower revenue and higher security expenses than stores in more affluent areas. 
Saudi Arabia sentences seven ISIL militants to death over a 2014 mass shooting that killed eight Shiite Muslims near the city of al-Ahsa. Three other convicts were given 25-year jail sentences. 
Jamaicans head to the polls the elect a new parliament amid a surge of COVID-19 infections. Prime Minister Andrew Holness of the Labour Party is among the candidates. 
The Jamaica Labour Party wins 49 of 63 seats in a landslide victory, marking the first time that the party has won consecutive general elections since 1967. 
Michael Reinoehl, who was accused of killing Patriot Prayer activist Aaron Danielson, is shot dead by police during arrest. 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announces that Kosovo and Serbia will open their embassies in disputed Jerusalem, recognizing the city as Israel's capital. Netanyahu says Kosovo is the first Muslim-majority country to do so. Until this day, only the United States and Guatemala have moved their embassies to Jerusalem, a move that Palestinians reject. 
Protests over a fatal police encounter in Rochester, New York began peacefully but ended with authorities using tear gas and pepper balls following incidents of vandalism and violence. It was the third straight night of protests after video was released earlier in the week showing Rochester Police Department officers holding Daniel Prude on the ground with a spit sock on his head in March. Prude stopped breathing and was declared brain dead at a hospital. 
The fourth night of protests in Rochester, New York, over the death of Daniel Prude, becomes the largest so far, and again it ends with pepper balls, tear gas, and fireworks. Rochester Police Department arrests nine people, including two on felony charges. Three officers are also treated at the hospital for injuries. A U-Haul truck is set on fire in a parking lot before firefighters arrive to put it out.  
Sudan declares a state of emergency after unprecedented flooding kills at least 99 people and leaves over 100,000 people homeless. The floods are the worst on record in Sudan since 1988, while the Nile has risen to its highest levels in a century. 
S&P Global Ratings upgrades Argentina's long term sovereign-credit rating to "CCC+" from "SD" citing the end of prolonged foreign and local law foreign currency debt restructurings, effectively pulling the country out of default territory after the country successfully restructured over $100 billion in sovereign debt. 
At a summit in Niamey, Niger, regional bloc ECOWAS gives the Malian military rulers a deadline of September 15 to appoint a new civilian President and Prime Minister. 
A Turkish court sentences ISIL militant Abdulkadir Masharipov to life imprisonment, plus an additional 1,368 years in prison, for killing 39 people and injuring 79 more at an Istanbul nightclub in 2017. 
Saudi Arabia issues final convictions for eight people for the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. 
A court in Lahore, Pakistan, sentences a Christian man to death for sending a "blasphemous" message to his former supervisor at work in 2013. The defendant said that his supervisor had tried to convert him to Islam, which he refused to do. The court rejected his testimony. 
Kiribati announces it will keep its borders closed until the end of the year to keep the country free of COVID-19. The presidential office announces some exceptions, including repatriation flights, with 20 I-Kiribati arriving soon from the Marshall Islands. 
Michigan records 1,313 new cases, its highest single-day total since April 24. 
Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announces an arms deal with France for the purchase of Dassault Rafale fighter aircraft and FREMM multipurpose frigates, as well as the recruitment of 15,000 additional troops, amid ongoing tension in the eastern Mediterranean. 
After being pardoned by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, Joseph Scott Pemberton is deported to the United States. The former US Marine apologizes to the victim's family and thanks Duterte for the pardon. 
Satellite imagery shows that a big chunk of ice shattered into many small pieces from the last remaining ice shelf in Nioghalvfjerdsfjorden, Greenland. 
A whistleblower working at an Immigration and Customs Enforcement facility in Georgia details a high rate of hysterectomies and other alleged medical neglect in a complaint to the Department of Homeland Security. Rep. Bennie Thompson, the House Homeland Security Committee chairman, says the allegations of hysterectomies being performed on women without consent are "incredibly disturbing".  
Part of the Pensacola Bay Bridge in Pensacola, Florida, collapses due to a crane falling on it. 
A two-month-old baby dies of COVID-19 in Michigan, the youngest known fatality in the state thus far. 
BuzzFeed News and the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists release the FinCEN files, a collection of 2,657 documents relating to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  
BuzzFeed News and the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists release the FinCEN files, a collection of 2,657 documents relating to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  
The government raises its alert level from 3 to 4, meaning transmission is "high or rising exponentially." It comes after the government's scientific adviser warned that there could be 50,000 new cases a day by mid-October without further action. 
A military plane carrying cadets from Kharkiv Air Force University during a training flight crashes in Kharkiv Oblast, Ukraine, killing 26 people and wounding another person. 
The United States surpasses seven million cases of COVID-19. 
The Armenian and Azerbaijani armed forces clash along the border of the unrecognized Republic of Artsakh, formerly known as the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. Several cities in Artsakh, including its capital city of Stepanakert, are under attack. At least 23 people are killed during the battle, of whom 16 are Nagorno-Karabakh servicemen, five Azerbaijani civilians and two Armenian civilians. 
Indonesia accuses Vanuatu of having an "excessive and unhealthy obsession" about West Papua. The remark comes after Vanuatuan Prime Minister Bob Loughman warned the international community about "human rights violations and abuses" in the region. 
CHEOPS announces the observation of WASP-189b, a ultra-Hot Jupiter exoplanet that orbits the star HD 133112 (also known as WASP-189) 322-light years away from the Libra constellation. 
The state-run National News Agency says that Lebanon's state prosecution has asked Interpol to detain two Russian citizens, the captain and owner of the MV Rhosus, a ship that carried thousands of tons of ammonium nitrate to Beirut in 2013. 
Amidst the third anniversary of the mass shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department backtracks on an earlier decision and has included, in the official death toll, two women who died from gunshot wound complications over the past year, thereby increasing it from 58 to 60.  
President Emmanuel Macron announces a crackdown on "Islamist separatism" in Muslim communities in France, saying a bill tackling Islamist separatism would be sent to parliament early next year. Among the measures, will include a ban on foreign imams, restrictions on home schooling, and the creation of an "Institute of Islamology" to tackle Islamic fundamentalism. 
Solomon Islands records its first case, a student who arrived from the Philippines. 
U.S. Senator Ron Johnson from Wisconsin tests positive for COVID-19, joining U.S. Senators Thom Tillis from North Carolina and Mike Lee from Utah as high-profile politicians infected with COVID-19 who attended recent events with President Donald Trump. 
The transitional government of Sudan signs a peace deal with the main rebel groups fighting in the conflict. The Sudan People's Liberation Movement-North, which had refused to engage in previous talks, joined this time. The U.S. Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan, Donald Booth, hails the deal as a "historic achievement". 
New Caledonians reject independence from France with 53.26% of votes, according to final results. Turnout is reportedly high. President Emmanuel Macron welcomes the result as a "sign of confidence in the republic". 
Iceland orders all bars, gyms and entertainment venues to close, and cuts the number of people allowed to gather in public from 200 to 20 amid a rising number of COVID-19 cases in the country. 
According to a study from the Scientific Reports, the Otodus megalodon was the largest shark to swim in Earth's oceans. Its body size was 15 meters (50 feet).  
The FBI announces that 13 men from militia group Wolverine Watchmen are charged in a plot to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer at her vacation home. 
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services reports that around 104,000 people in Michigan have recovered since the start of the pandemic. However, the state reported 1,522 new cases and 15 deaths, bringing the statewide total number of cases to 134,656 and death toll to 6,891. 
The Trump administration announces that they have secured the release of Mikael Gidada and Sandra Loli, two Americans that have been held hostage by Houthi rebels in Yemen for 16 months. 
A Houthi spokesman says 240 of their fighters have been released. In September, the United Nations announced a swap of "1081 conflict-related prisoners". 
It is announced that Kyle Rittenhouse, the teenager charged for killing two protesters in Kenosha, Wisconsin, will not face gun charges in Illinois. 
The New York Post reports that newly uncovered emails suggest Hunter Biden introduced his father, then-Vice President Joe Biden, to a top executive at Ukrainian natural gas firm Burisma Holdings. The Post obtained the alleged emails from top Donald Trump adviser Rudy Giuliani.   
The New York Post reports that newly uncovered emails suggest Hunter Biden introduced his father, then-Vice President Joe Biden, to a top executive at Ukrainian natural gas firm Burisma Holdings. The Post obtained the alleged emails from top Donald Trump adviser Rudy Giuliani.   
The New York Post reports that newly uncovered emails suggest Hunter Biden introduced his father, then-Vice President Joe Biden, to a top executive at Ukrainian natural gas firm Burisma Holdings. The Post obtained the alleged emails from top Donald Trump adviser Rudy Giuliani.   
The National Football League announces that the upcoming Pro Bowl will be cancelled, the first time since 1949. However, the league announced that it would still name teams at the end of the season in the usual format through votes by fans, players, and coaches.  
Twitter locks President Donald Trump's presidential campaign Twitter account for sharing private information without that person's permission, relating to a controversial Hunter Biden video. His account has since been unlocked. 
Police announce the arrest of a fourteenth suspect in relation to a foiled kidnapping plot targeting Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer. He has been charged at the state level with material support of an act of terrorism. 
Wallis and Futuna reports its first case of infection by SARS-CoV-2. The individual, who arrived on October 3, and later tested positive, is asymptomatic and in isolation in a hospital. The territory was the only French-administered region free of COVID-19 until today. 
U.S. President Donald Trump announces that the U.S. will remove Sudan from the list of State Sponsors of Terrorism after Sudan deposits US$335 million in a fund to compensate families of American victims of the 1998 United States embassy bombings. Sudanese Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok thanks the U.S. government for the decision. The United States Congress would still have to approve restoring Sudan's sovereign immunity. 
Soldiers open fire against protesters for about an hour and a half during protests against police brutality in Lagos, Nigeria, killing about 20 people and wounding at least 50 others. It is reported that the soldiers had built a barricade and ambulances could not reach the protest area. 
Michigan reports 43 new deaths, its highest single-day total since May 30. 
Israel and Sudan agree to establish diplomatic relations. 
Pope Francis announces the creation of 13 new cardinals, including the elevation of Archbishop Wilton Gregory of Washington who will become the first African-American cardinal in the Roman Catholic Church. The elevation is scheduled to occur on November 28. 
Premier of British Columbia John Horgan is projected to win a majority of seats for the New Democratic Party; he is the first BC NDP leader to be reelected in the province's history.   
Federal prosecutors announce the discovery of ghost guns and "explosive device components", which raises the possibility of them filing terrorism charges against six suspects accused of plotting to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer.  
Federal prosecutors announce the discovery of ghost guns and "explosive device components", which raises the possibility of them filing terrorism charges against six suspects accused of plotting to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer.  
Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews announces the easing of restrictions on pubs, restaurants, religious gatherings, gyms and indoor swimming pools, accommodations, and other facilities in Melbourne effective tomorrow at 11:59 pm AEDT. 
Hurricane Zeta strengthens to a Category 2 hurricane. 
An unsealed search warrant reveals that Barry Croft, one of the suspects accused in federal court of plotting to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, has also discussed South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster and President Donald Trump as possible targets.  
An unsealed search warrant reveals that Barry Croft, one of the suspects accused in federal court of plotting to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, has also discussed South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster and President Donald Trump as possible targets.  
Labour suspends its former leader Jeremy Corbyn following a report into antisemitism within the party's ranks. The report found Corbyn had "politically interfered" in the complaints process. 
The preliminary results are announced for a referendum on the End of Life Choice Act 2019, which legalizes doctor-assisted euthanasia, with voters approving it. Another referendum on the legalization of the sale and use of cannabis was not approved by voters.   
The preliminary results are announced for a referendum on the End of Life Choice Act 2019, which legalizes doctor-assisted euthanasia, with voters approving it. Another referendum on the legalization of the sale and use of cannabis was not approved by voters.   
The preliminary results are announced for a referendum on the End of Life Choice Act 2019, which legalizes doctor-assisted euthanasia, with voters approving it. Another referendum on the legalization of the sale and use of cannabis was not approved by voters.   
SEAL Team Six conducts a predawn raid in northern Nigeria, rescuing American hostage Philip Walton, who was kidnapped in Niger. The Pentagon says no U.S. military personnel were injured in the operation. 
Incumbent Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk's Labor Party expands their majority in the election. Palaszczuk becomes the first woman to win three elections in Australian history. 
Preliminary results see Georgia's ruling party Georgian Dream winning the country's latest parliamentary election. The announcement sparks protests throughout the country. 
The Czech Police Forces announce that they will carry out random border checks with Austria as a preventive measure against terrorism. 
Four civilians are killed and 22 others injured after a gunman opens fire in six locations in the streets of Vienna, Austria, near the central Schwedenplatz square. The Interior Minister described it as a "terror attack". The attacker was shot dead, and is identified as an Islamic State supporter who tried to join the group in Syria. 
The High Court of Justice finds in favour of News UK in the libel action that Johnny Depp took against them over claims he had beaten his ex-wife Amber Heard. 
Through its Amaq News Agency, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claims responsibility for last night's deadly mass shooting in Vienna, Austria. 
White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows tests positive for COVID-19. Four other White House aides and a Trump campaign staffer have also tested positive.  
The United Arab Emirates overhauls its legal system to loosen restrictions on alcohol consumption, permit cohabitation, and criminalize honor killings, among other changes. 
All major U.S. networks project that Joe Biden has been elected President of the United States after winning Pennsylvania. Kamala Harris will become the first female Vice President of the United States. This marks the first time since 1992 that an incumbent president's challenger has won the election over the incumbent president, when Bill Clinton defeated George H. W. Bush.  
All major U.S. networks project that Joe Biden has been elected President of the United States after winning Pennsylvania. Kamala Harris will become the first female Vice President of the United States. This marks the first time since 1992 that an incumbent president's challenger has won the election over the incumbent president, when Bill Clinton defeated George H. W. Bush.  
Islamist militants are reported to have beheaded over 50 people in a massacre at a village in Cabo Delgado Province. 
The Azerbaijani military says it has captured the city of Shusha in Nagorno-Karabakh. Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev says "We have won this victory on the battlefield, not at the negotiating table". Armenia and Artsakh leaders deny the loss of the city but say "fierce fighting" is ongoing inside the city. 
The Education Ministry orders all schools across the country to close as part of the implementation of a conditional movement control order in most states from tomorrow until the end of the academic year. 
Hours after signing of the deal, Ararat Mirzoyan, the president of Armenia's National Assembly, is pulled from his car and attacked by an angry mob of protesters. 
Ontario reports 1,426 new infections, a new single-day record. 
The United Kingdom reports 50,385 total COVID-19 deaths since the start of the pandemic, becoming the first country in Europe to surpass 50,000 deaths. 
Explosions are reported in the Eritrean capital Asmara amid reports of a missile attack from Tigray, Ethiopia. The Eritrean government confirms missiles were launched at the capital but said that they missed and instead landed in the countryside. The attack comes just hours after the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) threatened to target Eritrea. 
Saskatchewan reports a new single-day record of 308 cases, bringing the total number of cases in the province to 1,691. 
After several days of record highs for new cases, Governor Gretchen Whitmer issues an order closing several types of business and services, including high schools and universities, for three weeks, effective November 18. 
Pro-European Union candidate Maia Sandu defeats pro-Russian incumbent Igor Dodon to be elected the first female President of Moldova. 
Prime Minister Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi confirms the first case of COVID-19 in the country from a sailor who returned from Auckland, New Zealand. Malielegaoi said the sailor tested positive Wednesday night but that a second confirmation test from this morning was negative. He added that they were concerned that the man could be contagious, though he is in isolation. 
Eight people are injured in a mass shooting at Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, leading to an emergency response. The shooter remains at large. 
Ontario Premier Doug Ford announces that Toronto and the Peel Region will be placed in a "lockdown" tier, meaning that most non-essential businesses will be closed and non-essential retail stores and food establishments will be limited to takeout and curbside pick-up or delivery. These new measures will begin on November 23. 
World leaders at the virtual G20 summit in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, call for a united response to the COVID-19 pandemic and discuss the global economic crises and climate change. 
Several people are arrested, including a 15-year-old boy, in connection with Friday's mass shooting at the Mayfair Mall in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, which injured eight people. The shooting followed an altercation between two groups, according to police. 
The General Services Administration officially certifies President-elect Joe Biden as the "apparent winner" of the 2020 presidential election, and announces that the formal transition will be allowed to begin.  
Palestine reports a new single-day record of 17 deaths and 1,946 cases, bringing the nationwide totals to 87,838 cases and 740 deaths. 
Victoria reports zero active cases for the first time since February. 
Michigan announces citations and suspensions on liquor licenses for violating the state's public health order, which was issued on November 15 to control the spread of COVID-19. 
A royal commission of inquiry formally presents its report on the March 2019 mass shootings in Christchurch, New Zealand, to the government. The report has yet to be made public, a course of action that must be decided by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. 
The United States surpasses 13 million cases of COVID-19, six days after surpassing 12 million cases. 
Ohio surpasses 400,000 cases of COVID-19. 
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi visits South Sudan, making him the first President of Egypt to do so. 
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison demands an apology from the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs after a spokesman tweeted a political cartoon of an Australian soldier killing an Afghan child in a post criticizing the Australian Defence Forces' recent war crimes in Afghanistan. 
The Arecibo Observatory's telescope receiver collapses into the reflector dish, according to the National Science Foundation. The radio telescope was due to be decommissioned and dismantled after support cables broke on August 10, 2020. 
Five people are killed and 18 others injured in Trier, Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany, when a man drives an SUV into a pedestrian zone. The driver, a 51-year-old male German national, was arrested and was reportedly drunk at the time of the crash. 
Amnesty International condemns a sharp rise in the use of the death penalty in Egypt, accusing authorities of executing 57 people in October and November alone, nearly double the number recorded in the whole of 2019. 
At least one person has died and 227 have been hospitalised by an unidentified illness in Eluru, India. The patients had a wide range of symptoms from nausea to fits and falling unconscious, and all had tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. 
The number of people infected by a mysterious illness in the city of Eluru, Andhra Pradesh, India, increases to more than 400. The majority of those infected are children and young people. 
The United Kingdom's National Health Service begins a mass vaccination campaign against COVID-19 using the BNT162b2 vaccine developed by BioNTech and Pfizer. Seniors over the age of 80 and certain healthcare workers will be among the first to receive the vaccine. 
The U.S. surpasses 15 million cases of COVID-19, with about one out of every 22 Americans having tested positive since the pandemic began. 
After nearly 30 members and staffers of the Michigan House of Representatives test positive for COVID-19, scheduled voting sessions for December 9 and 10 were cancelled. , 
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen agree to set a deadline for a trade agreement between the UK and EU by 13 December. If no agreement is reached by then, the United Kingdom will leave the European Single Market and European Union Customs Union without a deal on 1 January 2021. 
After nearly 30 members and staffers of the Michigan House of Representatives test positive for COVID-19, scheduled voting sessions for December 9 and 10 were cancelled. , 
Bhutan and Israel agree to establish full diplomatic relations for the first time. 
The U.S. surpasses 16 million cases of COVID-19. 
Chancellor Angela Merkel announces that after meeting with leaders of the 16 states, a hard lockdown will occur from December 16 to January 10. Non-essential shops and schools will be closed. New Year's Eve events, including the sale of fireworks and public consumption of alcohol will be banned. 
The death toll from COVID-19 in the United States exceeds 300,000. 
Six men are indicted by a federal grand jury in the failed plot to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer. 
The Chilean Chamber of Deputies approves a bill to allow euthanasia. 
An off-duty police officer kills two unarmed neighbors in Paniqui, Tarlac, Philippines after opening fire against them following a dispute. The filmed incident circulates on social media hours later and sparks nationwide protests against police brutality and impunity.  
The United States Congress formally reinstates Sudan's sovereign immunity. Sudan had paid the U.S. a $335 million settlement to victims of al-Qaeda attacks. The U.S. will partially pay off Sudanese bilateral debt, and its debt to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), while making another US$700 million available until September 2022 for assistance to the country. 
Premier Doug Ford announces a province-wide lockdown across Ontario from December 26 until January 9 in Northern Ontario and January 23 in Southern Ontario in an attempt to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in the province. 
El Al operates the first direct commercial flight between Israel and Morocco following the normalization agreement between the two countries on December 10. Senior Advisor to the U.S. President Jared Kushner and Israel's National Security Advisor Meir Ben-Shabbat are among the high-level officials on board the flight. 
The Knesset fails to pass legislation to avert a dispersal of the current legislative session, triggering new elections in March. 
Malaysia signs a deal to receive 6.4 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. 
Overall deaths in the U.S. for this year are projected to surpass three million mainly due to the COVID-19 pandemic, thus making 2020 the deadliest year in U.S. history. The numbers also represent an approximate 15 percent increase compared to the previous year, which is the largest single-year percentage increase since 1918. 
Mayor Bill de Blasio orders people traveling from the United Kingdom to quarantine or face fines due to the discovery of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. 
Health Canada approves the Moderna vaccine and expects that up to 168,000 doses will arrive in Canada by the end of the year. 
The Ethiopian National Defense Force clashes with armed bandits involved in yesterday's massacre, killing 42 of them and seizing weapons. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announces that American passengers traveling from the United Kingdom will be required to test negative for COVID-19 within 72 hours due to the emergence of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2. The order is expected to take effect on December 28. 
An explosion occurs in a recreational vehicle in downtown Nashville, Tennessee, U.S., causing structural damage and injuring three people. Police believe the explosion was an "intentional act".  
The explosion also results in AT&T service outages across the U.S. due to infrastructure damage to a service facility located near the blast site. Cellular, wireline telephone, Internet, and U-verse television service, as well as multiple local 9-1-1 and non-emergency phone networks, are among the services affected.  
The explosion also results in AT&T service outages across the U.S. due to infrastructure damage to a service facility located near the blast site. Cellular, wireline telephone, Internet, and U-verse television service, as well as multiple local 9-1-1 and non-emergency phone networks, are among the services affected.  
Chief Medical Officer Tony Holohan confirms that the Republic has detected the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 from the United Kingdom as the country reports more than 1,000 for the first time in two months. 
Authorities announce that they suspect the incident was a suicide bombing, following the discovery of human remains at the blast site. 
Federal investigators identify a person of interest in yesterday's bombing in downtown Nashville, Tennessee, and join local police in raiding his home. 
Sudan says it will deploy troops to South Darfur "in large numbers" following recent tribal violence between the Masalit and Fula. 
Authorities officially identify the perpetrator of Friday's suicide bombing in Nashville, Tennessee, as 63-year-old Anthony Quinn Warner and conclude that he had been acting alone. 
Three French Army troops are killed when their armoured personnel carrier hits a roadside bomb in Hombori, Mali. 
An Azerbaijani soldier is killed and another injured in a shooting in Nagorno-Karabakh. Azerbaijan blames the attack on "an Armenian armed group"; all the six attackers are shot dead. 
Ireland officially begins a vaccination programme against COVID-19 using Pfizer-BioNTech's tozinameran vaccine, with a 79-year-old woman from Dublin becoming the first person to receive the vaccine. 
California reports its first case of a more contagious variant of SARS-CoV-2 from the United Kingdom in a patient from Southern California. 
Spain and the United Kingdom reach an agreement to keep Gibraltar in the European Union's Schengen Area as freedom of movement between the EU and UK is due to end. 
China approves BBIBP-CorV made by Sinopharm for general use, after the vaccine was considered to be 79.34% effective. 
Rescue workers find the bodies of four people who went missing during a landslide in Gjerdrum, Viken, Norway, on December 30. Six people are still missing. 
Rescue workers find the bodies of three people who went missing during a landslide in Gjerdrum, Viken, Norway, on December 30, bringing the death toll to seven. Three people are still missing. 
New York reports its first case of the new SARS-CoV-2 Alpha variant in a man in his 60s from Saratoga County who tested positive for COVID-19 despite having no travel history. 
New York reports its first case of the new SARS-CoV-2 Alpha variant in a man in his 60s from Saratoga County who tested positive for COVID-19 despite having no travel history. 
Saudi Arabia reopens its border with Qatar, ending the three-year diplomatic crisis. The resolution was brokered by Kuwait and the United States. ()
Georgia reports their first case of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 in an 18-year-old male with no travel history, and who is currently in isolation at home. 
The United States Senate chamber and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office are also breached by pro-Trump protesters.  
At least seven Democratic members of Congress, including Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Seth Moulton, and Republican Vermont Governor Phil Scott, call for Trump's immediate resignation or impeachment and removal by Congress, when it can reconvene, for insurrection against the United States.    
Stephanie Grisham resigns as the Chief of Staff to the First Lady as a result of the riots. Matt Pottinger resigns as deputy national security adviser; Mick Mulvaney, former chief of staff, resigns from his remaining duties as special envoy to Northern Ireland and Anna Cristina Niceta resigns as White House social secretary.  
Stephanie Grisham resigns as the Chief of Staff to the First Lady as a result of the riots. Matt Pottinger resigns as deputy national security adviser; Mick Mulvaney, former chief of staff, resigns from his remaining duties as special envoy to Northern Ireland and Anna Cristina Niceta resigns as White House social secretary.  
The United States Senate chamber and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office are also breached by pro-Trump protesters.  
At least seven Democratic members of Congress, including Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Seth Moulton, and Republican Vermont Governor Phil Scott, call for Trump's immediate resignation or impeachment and removal by Congress, when it can reconvene, for insurrection against the United States.    
A joint session of the United States Congress attempts to certify the Electoral College vote results and affirm the election of Joe Biden before being interrupted by the storming of the US Capitol. 
News networks project that Democrat Raphael Warnock will defeat Republican incumbent Kelly Loeffler, making him the state's first African-American Senator. Warnock claims victory, while Loeffler refuses to concede the race and vows to "fight on".  
Malaysia reports a record 2,593 new confirmed cases in the past 24 hours, bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 125,438. 
The government also agrees to tighten the lockdown measures including keeping schools closed but allowing Leaving Cert students to attend three days per week and also suspending non-essential construction projects. These measures will remain in place until the end of January. 
Iraq issues an arrest warrant for U.S. President Donald Trump, accusing him of "premediated murder" due to his role in the killings of Qasem Soleimani and Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis. 
Texas health officials report the state's first case of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 in a resident of Harris County with no travel history. 
Pennsylvania reports its first case of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 in a resident of Dauphin County who traveled internationally. 
Connecticut reports its first case of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 in two people, aged 15 and 25, who live in New Haven County. One had traveled to Ireland and the other to New York. 
Rep. Jake LaTurner is notified of his positive COVID-19 diagnosis after the vote on Arizona and goes into isolation, missing the Pennsylvania vote. 
Incumbent Republican Senator Kelly Loeffler concedes to her Democratic challenger Raphael Warnock. Former Republican Senator David Perdue has yet to concede to Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff, even as Ossoff expands his lead beyond the margin necessary to demand a state-funded recount. 
Chief Medical Officer Tony Holohan announces that three cases of the South African variant of SARS-CoV-2 named 501.V2 variant have been detected in Ireland. All of the people had travelled to South Africa. 
Ireland reports a record 8,248 new cases in the past 24 hours, bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 135,884. 
Minnesota reports its first five cases of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 that originated from the United Kingdom. The patients are aged 15 to 37. 
Indiana reports its first case of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 from the United Kingdom. 
Premier Doug Ford announces a second state of emergency and stay-at-home order for Ontario as the number of cases continues to increase. 
Egypt reopens its airspace to Qatari aircraft, and will allow the resumption of direct flights between the countries, which have been suspended since 2017. 
Swissmedic grants authorization for use of the Moderna vaccine in Switzerland, making it the second COVID-19 vaccine to be approved in the country. 
The Philippines reports their first case of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 from the United Kingdom in a person who travelled from the United Arab Emirates to Quezon City on January 7 and later tested positive. 
Former Michigan Governor Rick Snyder is charged with two counts of willful neglect of duty in connection with the Flint water crisis, which left residents with contaminated water and a Legionnaires outbreak.  
A roadside bomb kills five civilians and injures three others in Tebessa Province, Algeria. It is the deadliest attack on civilians in Algeria in recent years. In a separate incident, a militant is shot dead by the military in neighbouring  Khenchela Province. 
Oregon reports their first case of a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 that originated from the United Kingdom in a man from Multnomah County with no travel history. 
The federal government carries out its final execution under the Trump administration, executing convicted murderer Dustin Higgs by lethal injection at USP Terre Haute in Indiana. 
The Brazilian Health Regulatory Agency (Anvisa) grants emergency use authorization requests for the vaccines developed by Sinovac and Oxford-AstraZeneca. 
The United States Department of Justice closes an insider trading probe into U.S. Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina without making him face any criminal charges. 
An explosion caused by a gas leak at a residence for priests in Madrid, Spain results in four fatalities and injures ten others. It also partially destroys the residence. 
Dublin cancels their annual Saint Patrick's Day festival for the second year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The event will instead be held virtually on a special online TV channel. 
A truck carrying sticks of gelatin explodes at a boulder-crushing facility in Abbalagere in Shivamogga district, Karnataka, India, killing eight workers. 
Seven culprits involved in the deaths of 39 Vietnamese unlawful immigrants smuggled in a refrigerator lorry in Grays, Essex in 2019 have been sentenced on multiple counts of manslaughter. Five people received sentences of between 3 to 18 years in prison, while the two main leaders of the smuggling operation received 20 and 27 years respectively. 
The University of Michigan shuts down all sports activities for two weeks after the B.1.1.7 variant of SARS-CoV-2 is discovered in five people with ties to the school.  
The University of Michigan shuts down all sports activities for two weeks after the B.1.1.7 variant of SARS-CoV-2 is discovered in five people with ties to the school.  
Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte is set to hand in his resignation tomorrow, due to an ongoing political crisis which began on January 13. 
The government extends the Level 5 lockdown restrictions until March 5. They also agree to impose a 14-day mandatory hotel quarantine for all travelers without negative COVID-19 test results as well as all travelers from Brazil and South Africa. 
The government extends the Level 5 lockdown restrictions until March 5. They also agree to impose a 14-day mandatory hotel quarantine for all travelers without negative COVID-19 test results as well as all travelers from Brazil and South Africa. 
In accordance with decommunization laws, the last statue of Vladimir Lenin in the country (excluding territories currently annexed by Russia or occupied by separatists) is demolished in Odesa Oblast. 
One of the fourteen men accused of conspiring to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer pleads guilty in a federal court and agrees to testify against his co-defendants. His sentencing is scheduled for July 8. 
The National Weather Service issued a Winter Storm Warning for all areas above 6,500 feet (1,981 meters) in Nevada. 
The FBI announces that two women are arrested in Pennsylvania for their roles in the January 6 riot. One of the women, Dawn Bancroft, made threats to shoot House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. 
Trudeau announces new measures to take effect "in the coming weeks" that will require incoming travelers to undergo mandatory PCR testing upon arrival and quarantine in a hotel for a maximum of three days at their own expense. 
Taiwan reports its first death from COVID-19 since May 2020 in a woman in her 80s. 
More than 5,000 people are detained by police at nationwide protests calling for the release of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny. 
Saskatchewan reports its first two cases of the B.1.1.7 variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the Regina area. 
Malaysia extends its movement control order in all states and territories except Sarawak until February 18. 
Over 70 homes are destroyed by a large wildfire in Western Australia. 
Four Tunisian soldiers are killed by a land mine during a counter-terrorism operation in Mount Mghila, central Tunisia. 
The governments of Germany, Poland, and Sweden each expel a Russian diplomat to reciprocate the Russian government's expulsion of three European Union diplomats on February 6. 
The federal government and leaders of 16 German states agree to extend the nationwide lockdown until March 7 due to concerns about variants of SARS-CoV-2 despite a decline in the number of new cases. 
Prime Minister-designate Mario Draghi meets with President Sergio Mattarella and presents the list of proposed ministers for his cabinet. Draghi's oath of office is scheduled for tomorrow at 12:00 p.m. local time. 
Michael McDowell wins the 63rd running of the Daytona 500. It is McDowell's first career victory in the Cup Series. 
The Electoral Tribunal unanimously dismisses the electoral protest of former Senator Bongbong Marcos against Vice President Leni Robredo.  
Malaysia extends their movement control order in  Selangor, Johor and Penang as well as the federal territory of Kuala Lumpur until March 4 but eases restrictions in other parts of the country. 
The Therapeutic Goods Administration approves the emergency use of the vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca for people over 18 years of age in Australia. 
Facebook bans Australian news publishers from posting and Australian users from viewing and sharing news content in a preemptive retaliation move against the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission's (ACCC) proposed News Media Bargaining Code, which would require Facebook to pay to host Australian news content. A number of key government and charity organisations were also blocked for several hours. 
Restrictions are eased in New Zealand, with Auckland downgraded to alert level 2 and the rest of the country to alert level 1. Most Auckland schools are reopened and masks are made mandatory on public transportation. 
Equatoguinean President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo announces that his country will move its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem following talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
Novak Djokovic defeats Daniil Medvedev in the final to win the Men's Singles competition of the tournament. 
Canada's House of Commons approves a motion by 266 to zero votes, formally recognizing that China is committing genocide against its Muslim Uyghur minority in Xinjiang. However, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and most of his Cabinet did not participate in the vote. An amendment to the bill also calls for the 2022 Winter Olympics to be moved from Beijing if the genocide continues. 
Canada's House of Commons approves a motion by 266 to zero votes, formally recognizing that China is committing genocide against its Muslim Uyghur minority in Xinjiang. However, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and most of his Cabinet did not participate in the vote. An amendment to the bill also calls for the 2022 Winter Olympics to be moved from Beijing if the genocide continues. 
The last statue of Spanish dictator Francisco Franco in Spain is removed in Melilla. 
Saskatchewan reports their first case of the 501.V2 variant first detected in South Africa. The patients are two people from the Regina zone who tested positive for COVID-19 at the end of January. 
At U.S. President Joe Biden's direction, the U.S. military launches airstrikes against Iranian-backed militia group Kata'ib Hezbollah's structures in Abu Kamal, Syria, killing 17 Popular Mobilization Forces militants. The airstrikes are described as retaliation for a recent rocket strike in Erbil, Iraq, which left two people dead and 13 others wounded, including American military personnel. 
The Dutch House of Representatives votes to recognize the Chinese government's treatment of its Uyghur Muslim minority as genocide, becoming the first European Union country to do so. 
A man in his 50s is confirmed to be the first fatality of the February 13 earthquake that struck near Fukushima, Japan, after his body is found buried in his destroyed home. 
The Federal Court, in a landmark decision, unanimously declares that Selangor's sharia law provision on "unnatural sex" is invalid and unconstitutional, as such offences fall under the jurisdiction of federal law.  
Ireland reports its first case of the B.1.525 variant first detected in Nigeria. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has reportedly identified a suspect in connection to the death of Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick during the storming of the U.S. Capitol last month. 
The Biden administration releases a previously classified intelligence report on the assassination of Saudi dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi, confirming that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman had approved of the assassination. 
Ten civilians are killed, of whom eight have been decapitated and two shot, in two ADF overnight attacks in Boyo and Kainama, Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
Auckland enters alert level 3 lockdown for seven days, with the rest of the country entering alert level 2. This comes after a new COVID-19 case of unknown origin was detected. 
A gunfight erupts between Indonesian Army and East Indonesia Mujahideen in the Andole Mountain area, Poso Regency, Central Sulawesi, resulting in the death of a soldier and two militants. 
Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy is sentenced to three years in jail for corruption, after being found guilty of trying to offer a job to a magistrate in return for information about a criminal inquiry into his political party. 
Islamic terrorist group al-Shabaab publicly executes five people by firing squad for allegedly spying for the American and Somali intelligence agencies in Jilib, Middle Juba. Hundreds of people reportedly gathered to watch the execution. 
The number of farmers who died during the protests, which began in August 2020, increases to 248. 
Health Canada approves the single-dose Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine. 
The death toll from yesterday's explosions in Bata, Equatorial Guinea, rises to 98 people. More than 615 others are wounded. 
Governor Mike Dunleavy announces that Alaska will drop its eligibility requirements for the COVID-19 vaccine and allow all residents over the age of 16 to receive it, thereby becoming the first state to do so. The state has also led other states in the percentage of its population to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. 
Myanmar recalls its Ambassador to the United Kingdom Kyaw Zwar Minn after he publicly called for the release of jailed State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi. 
Auckland returns to alert level 1 and lifts all COVID-19-related restrictions aside from their face mask requirement on public transport after no community cases were found. 
Two men are arrested and charged by the United States Department of Justice for assaulting police officer Brian Sicknick during the storming of the United States Capitol. 
The European Union notifies the United Kingdom of its intent to start an infringement procedure. According to the EU, the UK breached the Northern Ireland Protocol by unilaterally extending the grace period related to trade on the island of Ireland beyond April 1. 
Eight people, including six Asian-American women, are murdered and another is wounded in mass shootings near Atlanta, Georgia, United States.   
UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock announces that Gibraltar has vaccinated its entire adult population against COVID-19, thus becoming the first in the world to do so. 
A Houthi drone strike on a Saudi Aramco oil refinery in the capital Riyadh causes a large fire. The Houthis say that they launched six drones at a Saudi Aramco facility and vow to continue operations against Saudi Arabia as long as its aggression against Yemen continues. 
The Philippines reports a record 7,103 new confirmed cases in the past 24 hours, thereby bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 648,066. 
Prime Minister Imran Khan tests positive for COVID-19, two days after being vaccinated. 
The death toll from yesterday's raids in Tahoua, Niger, rises to at least 137. A security official blames ISIL for the attacks in a volatile region, which has seen an increase in these types of attacks in the past few months.  
The death toll from yesterday's raids in Tahoua, Niger, rises to at least 137. A security official blames ISIL for the attacks in a volatile region, which has seen an increase in these types of attacks in the past few months.  
The death toll from yesterday's raids in Tahoua, Niger, rises to at least 137. A security official blames ISIL for the attacks in a volatile region, which has seen an increase in these types of attacks in the past few months.  
Investigations into the 2020 fire that destroyed 56,338 acres in northern California conclude that the fire began when a gray pine tree fell on power lines belonging to the Pacific Gas and Electric Company.  
Israelis go to the polls for the fourth time in less than two years. 
During a news conference in Naypyidaw, the Tatmadaw defended the reimposition of the junta and claimed that ousted national leader Aung San Suu Kyi was corrupt, tantamount to graft. No supporting evidence for these allegations was offered outside of the taped testimony of a former colleague of Aung San Suu Kyi, Phyo Min Thein, who has been detained by the military since the coup began. 
The U.S. surpasses 30 million cases of COVID-19. 
Virginia becomes the 23rd U.S. state to abolish the death penalty, and the first Southern state to do so. 
Virginia becomes the 23rd U.S. state to abolish the death penalty, and the first Southern state to do so. 
King Felipe VI of Spain makes the first ever state visit by a Spanish king to Andorra. 
The Philippines reports a record 8,773 new confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, thereby bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 693,048. 
Islamist militants have taken control of Palma after outnumbered government forces withdraw from the town, according to security forces. 
China and Iran sign a 25-year cooperation agreement at a live televised ceremony in Tehran, following a two-day state visit by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. The accord is expected to significantly increase Chinese investment in Iran, especially in the energy and infrastructure sectors. 
In the fourth day of a siege in Palma, Mozambique, several people are killed by ISIL-linked militants. Local civilians are killed in streets and buildings, with reports of beheadings. A South African man and a British citizen are murdered after a hotel and a evacuation convoy are attacked; other foreigners are also suspected to have been killed. At least 21 soldiers are shot dead while responding to the hotel attack.  
In the fourth day of a siege in Palma, Mozambique, several people are killed by ISIL-linked militants. Local civilians are killed in streets and buildings, with reports of beheadings. A South African man and a British citizen are murdered after a hotel and a evacuation convoy are attacked; other foreigners are also suspected to have been killed. At least 21 soldiers are shot dead while responding to the hotel attack.  
In the fourth day of a siege in Palma, Mozambique, several people are killed by ISIL-linked militants. Local civilians are killed in streets and buildings, with reports of beheadings. A South African man and a British citizen are murdered after a hotel and a evacuation convoy are attacked; other foreigners are also suspected to have been killed. At least 21 soldiers are shot dead while responding to the hotel attack.  
Mexico publishes revised figures, indicating that the number of deaths caused by COVID-19 is 60% higher than previously reported. The revised total is 321,000, thereby making it the country with the world's second-highest number of deaths.  
A judge orders three men charged with plotting to kidnap Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer to stand trial, after a three-day preliminary hearing. Threat of terrorism charges are dismissed against two of the defendants. 
The Philippines reports a record 10,016 new confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, thereby bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 731,894. 
A report by the United Nations mission in Mali concludes that an airstrike conducted by France in Mopti on January 3 killed 19 civilians at a wedding. The French military maintains that it had killed rebel fighters identified by aerial surveillance, and denies that a wedding had taken place in Bounti. 
A woman opens fire at the Indonesian National Police headquarters in Jakarta before being shot dead by police. A male accomplice flees the scene. No other casualties are reported. 
The regional office of the leftist Unidas Podemos party in Cartagena, Murcia, is firebombed, leaving damage to its exterior. 
A Capitol Police officer is killed and another is wounded after being struck by a vehicle outside Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. The attacker is shot dead after lunging at the officers with a knife. 
At least 50 people are killed and 156 others are wounded when a Taroko Express train, headed for the celebration of the Tomb Sweeping festival, derails in Hualien, Taiwan. 
The government extends the enhanced community quarantine imposed on the Greater Manila Area until April 11, following the report of a record 15,310 new confirmed cases the previous day. 
The United States records four million COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the past 24 hours, a new single-day record. 
Mozambique's military says that it has regained full control of the town of Palma, more than a week after it was captured by ISIL-linked militants. Several militants are killed during the counter-offensive. 
Tribal clashes between Masa and Arabs in the Sudanese city of Geneina, West Darfur, kill at least 40 people and injure 60 others. Residents report the use of heavy weaponry and rocket-propelled grenades. 
North Korea announces that the country has withdrawn from participating in the Summer Olympics in Japan, citing COVID-19 concerns. 
In west Belfast, Loyalist youths hijack a bus and set it on fire. A photographer is also assaulted and his cameras are damaged. 
An earthquake kills at least seven people and damages buildings in Java, Indonesia. 
Irish jockey Rachael Blackmore becomes the first female winner of the Grand National. Another horse, The Grand Mile, suffers a broken leg and is euthanised.  
A police officer in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, a suburb of Minneapolis, kills a man during an attempted arrest following a traffic stop, leading to rioting and looting in the city and surrounding areas. 
The BBC receives a record 110,994 complaints over their coverage of Prince Philip's death, mostly due to the extent of the coverage. 
The Marshall Islands reaches an adult population vaccination rate of nearly 75%. After completing the urban areas, the Ministry of Health and Human Services plans to distribute Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines to the most remote islands of the country to vaccinate the rest of the population. The vaccines were provided as a donation by the United States. 
Protests spread across the country over the police killing of Daunte Wright. Demonstrations and marches are held in New York, Los Angeles, Seattle, Portland, and other cities. 
U.S. President Joe Biden says that he plans to withdraw all remaining American troops in Afghanistan by September 11. The United States also reiterates its support for the Afghan government against the Taliban, which declines to comment on the apparent change from the previously-agreed deadline of May 1. 
A court in Ismailia grants the Egyptian Suez Canal Authority's request to seize CS Ever Given pending payment of a compensation claim of over US$900 million. 
The United States suspends the use of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine following concerns of blood clots. 
